The committee decided to maintain the
target range for the Fed funds rate in
support of the Fed's dual mandate.
>> This was a very deliberate and patient
approach and we'll see through the path
of incoming data how this plays out.
>> It's hard not to interpret that as a
little bit more hawkish than otherwise
[music] people might have expected.
>> Half of the committee is expecting rate
hikes this year. We were thinking two,
maybe three to be decorative. We didn't
think half the committee.
>> That's one of the [music] challenges the
Fed faces is they've got to manage to
the economic aggregates when the devil
is in the details.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning, live from New York.
Welcome to Bloomberg Surveillance. It's
tug-of-war Thursday with two competing
factors buffeting markets. On one side,
stocks rising on the prospect of a
signed deal between the US and Iran. On
the other, a bold new Fed chair putting
a hawkish stamp on the world's most
important central bank, locking in
market expectations for a rate hike as
soon as October. For the moment,
however, trading's taking traders taking
more signal from falling oil prices than
potential rate hikes.
>> And you have gasoline this morning in
America falling below $4 a gallon. So,
that's a big deal [music] for this White
House and of course this market. You see
with the signing of the memorandum of
understanding last night by the
President of the United States at the
Palace of Versailles, you see oil
falling lower [music]
and an uptick in traffic already, almost
immediately in the Strait of Hormuz.
Now, we know potentially there's going
to be issues down the road when it comes
to this deal and there's [music] a lot
to be negotiated and not all of the
President's red lines or most of them
actually not even hit. But, the fact of
the matter to this market, [music]
more barrels are going to be available.
>> Yeah, to your point, we are hearing
about the first Saudi tankers traversing
the Strait of Hormuz with their [music]
transponders on. This highlighting just
how much more traffic could potentially
go through. There are a lot of details
we don't know whether this [music] was
part of the agreement or not or who else
might be going through the Strait of
Hormuz, but this is what markets are
looking for and this comes despite
[music]
this new focus by the Fed on bringing
inflation down without much mention at
all of the [music] employment market.
>> approach now from this Federal Reserve.
A very short statement. The word count
much lower. You had a short press
conference [music] and you had a Kevin
Warsh that decided to not put a dot on
the plot, not submit a forecast. This is
an individual who is going to start a
really brand new era of the Fed and also
a lot of emphasis Lisa and I'm sure
because you did a fantastic [music] job
yesterday on the Fed special. A lot of
emphasis on the special committees that
are going to look into different parts
[music] of how the Fed operates like
communications, inflation, the balance
sheet, etc. And maybe that was a punt
for the Federal Reserve chair, but
definitely getting his his feet wet and
saying, you know, we're going to need
some help when it comes to these issues.
>> there's some real meat behind these task
forces. I went home last night and I
said, "Okay, we're going to have a task
force about dishes." But there is a
sense right now. Uh these five different
task forces [music] are getting
assembled right now and going forward
they are expected to come to some
conclusions by the end of this year.
Right now, you bled it all through the
markets yesterday. Real risk-off tone
heading into the close when it came in
particular to bond sensitive sectors.
Today, we're pulling that back. S&P
futures up 9/10 of a percent. The tech
sensitive [music] sectors of the market
are gaining that much more. You're
seeing dollar strength continue. This
was a big story yesterday particularly
with the Bank of Japan and what the yen
is doing. Today, you're seeing that
continue versus the euro 114.73 the euro
dollar [music] cross. You're seeing
yields come in just a bit after surging
yesterday. Watch the front end of the
yield. You saw that rise 14 basis points
on the day and crude [music] solidly
lower $74.58
on WTI. Coming up this hour, Ed Yardeni
of Yardeni Research on Kevin Warsh's
hawkish debut. Norman Rule of CSIS
breaking down the interim deal to end
the US war with Iran. And Jennifer
Huddleston of the Cato Institute as AI
leaders make their case at G7. We begin
this hour with stocks rising and bond
yields falling after Kevin Warsh made it
clear the central bank will not tolerate
high inflation. Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research calling Warsh a quote hawk in
dove's clothing writing we thought he
was a dove who favored lowering the
federal funds rate. Instead, he hammered
home a strict orthodox message on
inflation with a strong commitment to
price stability. Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, great to see you. Thank you
for being here. So, is this more of an
Alan Greenspan rather than say an Alan
Burns?
>> I I really can't answer that because I
have a task force working on that.
[laughter]
>> Don't we all?
>> It's very Greenspan. I mean, it's you
know,
not a lot of information, a lot of
ambiguity, and
you know, occasionally some surprises.
He started right off the bat with a
surprise. He He you know, it's kind of
like he had an interview with President
Trump and yesed him, told told him
everything that that he wanted. Yes,
we're going to lower interest rates.
Yes, AI is creating productivity. Then
as soon as he got the job, it's like the
old Warsh concerned about
price stability. He mentioned price
stability over and over again. And not
only that, but he pretty much committed
to 2%. He
He didn't finagle that too much at all.
>> Mike Reed of RBC RBC said, "By their
count, inflation was mentioned by Kevin
Warsh 19 times compared to four times
where he mentioned the labor market." Is
>> Right. And the labor market is looking
good.
>> Right, exactly. There was no mention of
the dual mandate or a sense that maybe
there's some weakness there in conflict
in the dual mandate. Is this all talk
and not action, right? I mean, if you
were skeptical, you would say this is
somebody who wants to jawbone the the
market. You're seeing the move that he
wanted in the flattening of the yield
curve.
And then he won't necessarily deliver.
>> I think he's he's hoping that he'll be
lucky because so far so good. I mean the
price of oil is coming down. As you
mentioned the price of gasoline is
coming down. We are going to see the
headline inflation news coming down
substantially and if he's lucky and the
recent inflation surge doesn't spread
into the rest of the inflation numbers
then he may very well just kind of sit
back and let that all happen and then
he'll say well look you know things are
going in the right direction. We don't
have to do anything. And at the same
time signal that down the road maybe the
productivity story will come back as a
reason to lower rates but right now
it it may be a do nothing Fed for a
while.
>> What if we see a labor market that does
weaken though? What's his reaction
function going to be?
>> Well he kind of locked himself in. I
mean you know he he didn't say very much
except on price stability. He he said
that over and over again and uh
I think that if you get a a weaker labor
market
he's going to
be called on
if if he suddenly
becomes very liberal you know in in the
mandate to say well
people are getting hurt. We we've got to
focus on the unemployment rate. He
basically said that in order to have a
healthy economy in order to have a
healthy labor market you have to have
a price stability which by the way is
deja vu all over again because that's
what Powell had been saying for quite
some time.
>> Do you think he was the one that threw
out the proposal of discussing a rate
cut at the meeting just so he can you
know when he has breakfast with the
Treasury Secretary say look I threw it
out there and I was pushed back.
>> We don't know. I mean I I you know it's
it's a good conspiracy theory.
>> [laughter]
>> Right could work.
>> It kind of makes it makes sense. You
know he could go
back to the president and say hey I I
was the one who
you know
well but but he said he didn't vote on
the dot plot so
you know I don't know where he is on and
that.
>> So when you take a look at some of the
projections coming out of number of
different Wall Street houses, uh some
have been raising their expectations for
rate hike this year. You saw that with
Deutsche Bank saying that with less
communication, they could be more nimble
and rate hike hike rates sooner. Even
Citi Group, which has been on the more
dovish side, pushing back the potential
for a rate cut. If there are rate hikes,
does that curtail the roaring 2020s and
some of the enthusiasm that we're seeing
in equities? Yes, your your story. Yes,
so
>> Does it Does it affect it?
>> last time I was here, I think John
mentioned that we were 6 years into the
roaring 2020s. If If you just counted,
we're actually 7 years into the roaring
2020s. And so, if I get this year right,
I only have three more to go. And every
year there's, you know, it's a roller
coaster ride. You get all sorts of
things to worry about. Maybe that's the
next worry is that suddenly we're
worrying that, you know, if the Fed
actually has to raise interest rates,
then won't that spoil the the roaring
2020s, the the party we're in? I don't
think so. I think I think the economy
has demonstrated its resilience. I You
know, people have been kind of getting
all bent out of shape about the bond
yield being back up. It's back to 4 and
1/2%. That's kind of normal. I think the
bond yield has normalized. I think Fed
policy has normalized. I mean,
I I think
you know, we can just kind of leave
things alone here for a while because
the economy is performing just fine.
>> Those are two different things though.
Leaving it alone versus hiking rates,
two different things. And
understandably, people are watching what
he does, not what he what he actually
says. At the same time, if you do think
about hiking two times this year, which
even Bob Michele of JP Morgan was
talking about yesterday,
how much does that infect potentially
some of what we're seeing?
>> Look, when the apparel numbers came out
real strong, we we kind of reiterated
our position that there was not going to
be any rate cuts this year, and that the
the Fed would probably switch to a a
tightening bias at this meeting, which
is exactly what happened. They didn't go
from ease an easing bias to an April to
a neutral bias. They went right right to
a tightening bias. And so, we got that
right. And but the thing that really
surprised me is how hawkish
that
uh Warsh came across.
If the Fed were in a position where they
had to raise rates, it'd be a quarter 50
basis points. It wouldn't be a big deal
in in my humble opinion. And the bond
market might actually rally on that.
Back in 2024 the Fed lowered the Fed
funds rate by 100 basis points. I said,
"You know, I think you're making a
mistake here cuz the economy is
resilient and you haven't gotten down to
2% and the bond market agreed with me,
my bond vigilante friends.
The bond yield went up 100 basis points.
And even last year they cut 35 basis
points on the Fed funds rate and the
bond yield, where is it today? 4 and
1/2%. So, they haven't accomplished
anything. So, lowering rates hasn't
helped, but they may conclude
Look, the thing that really came across
to me is that
And he said it. Warsh said, "Look, we
haven't we haven't gotten down to our 2%
inflation target in over 5 years." And
he said he committed the committee to
get down to
get inflation down to 2%. So, you know,
how you going to do that without raising
interest rates? So, I I I think the
market's got it right now that
when we thought that
there would be a tightening bias. And
there could be
an increase
if if the Fed really wants to get it
down to 2%, that may be
necessary.
>> But Ed, what about the Fed policy on
house on the housing market? Cuz he said
that's one area where he does think it's
restrictive.
>> Well, at the same time he's talking
about reducing the balance sheet and
particularly focusing on
the Fed's been talking for a while about
reducing the mortgage
back securities down to zero. That's not
going to help the the housing market. I
don't think they've got an answer for
that. You know, I mean it's it's a
shotgun. It's not a rifle. They There's
There's And there's only so much the Fed
can do. I'm a believer that
you know, if if the Fed is not in our
face as much as it was when Powell was
around, I mean, I really don't mind less
less communication. I
I finally
finally had been calling them the
Federal Open Mouth Committee.
>> [laughter]
>> You know.
>> Are you on the task force?
>> No, I'm not on a task force.
>> This is my first question to everyone.
Are you on a task force? Which one?
>> Ed Yardeni, thank you
>> so much for being with us. Wonderful to
have you on the show. Ed Yardeni of
Yardeni Research. As we analyze this new
Federal Reserve under Kevin Warsh. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Isabelle Lee. Isabelle.
>> Hi Lisa, the US and Iran signing an
interim deal opening the door for 60
[music] days of negotiations. The deal
prompted criticism from some of Trump's
allies who say it amounts to a victory
for Tehran and that the US is conceding
too [music] much. Talks on nuclear
issues and potential further financial
gains for Iran are to follow.
And the Fed holding rate steady at the
first meeting of Chair Kevin Warsh.
President Trump reacting to the news.
>> It's all right. Whatever.
>> And it looks like they might even raise
them later this year. It's not clear. Do
you have any comment?
>> It could happen. I mean, I I It's hard
to believe.
It just keeps the country down, you
know. So, it's so
unusual.
But we have a very good guy over there
now, so I'm guided by what he wants.
>> Warsh said the central bank won't
tolerate high inflation.
And SpaceX shares falling for the first
time since its record IPO, sliding 5% at
the end of a volatile session.
>> [music]
>> Still, shares remaining more than 42%
above the IPO price. The low float
amplifying the impact of retail buying.
That's our Bloomberg Brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Isabelle. Up next, a
tenuous [music] deal.
>> My whole life is all about deals. That's
all I ever did is make deals. If they
don't
honor the agreement, it's still probably
go back to bombing them.
>> I mean, Roll of CSIS joins next to parse
through the details of this deal. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. [music] Good
morning.
It is a tug-of-war, and right now oil
prices winning out. You can see
enthusiasm building under the hood
despite a more hawkish Federal Reserve
under Fed chair Kevin Warsh. Right now,
we're seeing that more pronouncedly in
the tech [music] sphere, in the more
high beta areas of the market, up 1.6%
on the Nasdaq. You see that also in the
Kospi, it's around the world. Meanwhile,
[music] you can take a look at what's
bleeding some enthusiasm into the
Russell 2000, up about 1.2% ahead of the
open, and that comes [music] from the
bond space. Today, this morning, we're
taking a little bit away from what we
saw yesterday after the statement by the
Federal Reserve. Yesterday, two-year
Treasury yields shot up 13 basis points.
That [music] was the biggest jump since
April of 2025, but that matched the
largest increase on [music] a Fed
meeting day since 2008. Today, we
continue to build on some of that
increase, 4.19% [music]
on the two-year yield with full rate
hike baked in by October. The yield
[music] curve flattening really notable.
30-year yields sharply lower than where
they were yesterday, [music] 4.88%
continuing down another five basis
points [music] today. To Ed Yardeni's
point, and this I think is really
important. If this Fed were to hike
rates, that could potentially be good
for the bond market and cause [music] a
rally. That is a point that maybe people
are taking home when it comes to
duration, but With oil story really
front and center here,
oil prices back down to where they were
just at the start of Operation Epic Fury
as people take a look at this deal and
Emery seem to think that yes, there is
some teeth behind it.
>> Well, you need to see what actually is
happening in the Strait of Hormuz and as
we mentioned earlier, we are already
seeing [music] uptick of vessels that
are going to the Strait of Hormuz.
Already we have Saudi Arabia being able
to get their state [music] tanker giant
being able to get some vessels through.
So this is a good sign, a very good sign
for the oil market.
>> When [music] it comes to this deal
though, Lisa, it didn't address the
president's red line and at the same
time this was happening, signing a deal
[music]
that a lot of critics were talking about
didn't really address his red lines. His
Fed chair that he thought was going to
be dovish came out swinging as a hawk.
>> Yeah, well, let's get to that deal under
surveillance this morning, the tenuous
agreement.
>> My whole life is all about deals. That's
all I ever did is make deals. If they
don't honor the agreement, we'll
probably go back to bombing them.
>> Here's the latest, President Donald
Trump signing an interim peace deal with
Iran last night. Bloomberg's Laura
Davison joins us now from war. Laura,
what do we know about the details of the
deal and what went up to the actual
signing of it?
>> Yes, with the the deal includes 14
points, but it really reduces the the US
or brings the US back to where it was
pre-war, to the end of the fighting and
it allows for ships to continue passing
through the Strait of Hormuz as they
were before the war began. But in there
for Iran to get them to agree to this
deal, there's a lot of financial
incentives. There's an easing of of
sanctions on selling their oil as well
as this $300
economic development fund funded by by
Gulf states that it was sort of the the
carrots to get Iran to sign on to it.
Important to note that this is also
really just sort of the start line for
negotiations. It basically starts a a
60-day clock to come up with some
details about some of the more thorny
issues here. But this was really, you
know, a month or more in the making as
you had Gulf allies really quietly
shuttling behind the scenes between
Tehran, Washington and and other Gulf
states, uh Qatar playing a key role here
of of of trying to figure out exactly
how to get this deal agreed to. But,
this has been, you know, a long time in
the making. You know, there's been some
criticism from the US side, including
from Republicans. Folks like Bill
Cassidy and Mike Pence have said that
this is this is quite a bad deal. But,
we're already starting to see at least
some Republicans breathe a sigh of
relief as they head into the midterms
and as gasoline prices cross for the
first time since March below below $4 a
gallon.
>> Laura Davison of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for that. Norman Roule of CSIS
rating the reported US Iran deal is best
understood as a high-value pause in the
current military phase of the conflict,
not a durable strategic settlement. The
deal buys time. It does not buy trust.
Norman joins us now for more. Norman,
wonderful to get your perspective. Can
you just elaborate on that? Why do you
think that this 14-point deal is simply
a placeholder and not necessarily a road
map for what's to come?
>> Good morning. The deal certainly has
drawn a fair amount of criticism from
both opponents and supporters of the
administration for its language. But, it
provides a mechanism for the
administration to transfer the process
from a military conflict, which it no
longer provided options for a low-cost
way to restore access to the strait and
to achieve its previous goals goals into
a diplomatic process. Now, the
diplomatic process may not offer any
optimism for its success, but the
diplomatic process
immediately relieves pressure on the
world energy markets and the world
economies and and sort of reshuffles the
deck of options for the administration.
Now, in terms of what the Iranians will
get out of this, absolutely they will
get some financial relief. But, in
fairness, the $300 fund is described as
a plan. There's absolutely no reason to
believe that anyone in their right mind
will donate money to this given the the
that that will be hostage to Iran's
policy, future sanctions, and that Gulf
states have been victims of Iranian
attacks and are devoting most of their
investments to their own economies. And
last my last point that I would make on
this is that this this process itself is
tenuous, and the president and the
administration of will need to approve
early on that there
this process is narrow, it is a
reversible, and it is achieving
something besides giving the Iranians
additional liquidity.
>> Norm, given the fact that it is narrow,
what happened to the president's own red
lines that he's spoken about for years?
>> Well, his red lines really that he
mentioned again in the press conference
yesterday remain threefold. First, Iran
cannot have a pathway to a nuclear
weapon. That remains part of this
process, and indeed that's the primary
effort of upcoming talks. Now, he's
talked about missiles, and his statement
yesterday is that Iran can have a normal
complement of missiles that any country
in the world might have. Now, that's not
an ICBM, that's not an
intermediate-range ballistic missiles,
but that would be a defensive complement
that any country would have. Now, that's
going to be worked out with its
neighbors. And last, Iran's got to do
something about its militias that it
can't have a process. The sense is that
there's conversations that are going on
in the side of this deal that will work
that out, but that's a complicated
regional diplomatic issue that they
don't want to put in the same basket as
their initial discussions with the
already very hard nuclear issues.
>> The vice president, when he was making
the rounds doing some interviews with
the reporters, said that Iran's regime
is, quote, "a much different group of
people for whom, quote, something has
fundamentally transformed." Norm, do you
see any evidence that this is really a
new regime?
>> Well, they're a new generation. They're
They're They were They were raised in a
different world, a post-2003
world view.
So, certainly they have a different
perspective, but there's no evidence
whatsoever that they believe that the
should not be a regional hegemon, that
they don't believe that they have a a
right to an an an an a an a an a an a
reason to run militias such as Hezbollah
and the Houthis and that they won't
remain a threat to their neighbors in
the near term. But clearly there are
conversations going on between the
administration and some elements in the
Iranian government that have given the
administration reason to believe this
may be the case. The trick is the
administration needs to demonstrate
somewhat early on in the process that
this process is proving that is that
possibility
may be realized.
>> Norm, do you think that this realigns
the US in the region? It seems like the
Gulf nations are happy that the kinetic
conflict will at least cease for now. At
the same time Israel is pretty upset
because some of their goals have not
been reached. Do you think this aligns
the US more closely with Gulf nations
and further away from Israel?
>> Well, let's look at Israel's goals.
Iran's nuclear program has been
devastated. Iran's missile program has
been severely damaged.
Now at the same time the regime remains
in place. The militias are no more
active than they were prior to this. The
question I think for Israel is how long
would that conflict continue? And there
are people in Israel and the United
States would like this conflict to
continue and that's an ideological
position. Now within the Gulf, they're
paying the price for that conflict with
the missiles striking their population.
There's no evidence the Gulf states as a
group opposed the deal the president has
put forward and the United States is
seen as the indispensable security
partner of the GCC. It may not be
sufficient to be the only partner, but
it is the indispensable partner and it
leaves this conflict much closer to all
of these of of the GCC states.
>> Do you think that buying time means 60
days or do you think that buying time
means till the end of the year?
>> Yes. I think the answer is it could be
either, but it's going to depend upon
events. And that's important because all
it takes would be some sort of high
casualty event that might take place,
God forbid, in
Lebanon, which remains a separate arena
from this. Neither Israel nor the
Lebanese Hezbollah were parties to this
agreement, although Lebanon is mentioned
in the agreement. And some sort of event
could take place during this
the discussions, which could take this
these conversations out of joint and
move this into a
a different sort of dynamic. But the
administration is going to look for some
way to show that the Iranians are moving
in the right direction, and that will
take time. Remember, nothing moves fast
in talks with Iran, no matter which
administration is dealing with them. And
these issues are issues that every
administration has spent years
struggling to work with Iran. So, no
there's it's it would be unfair to to
expect that the Trump administration
could achieve any of this quickly.
>> Norman Roule of CSIS, thank you so much.
It does seem [music] like buying time
is the takeaway at a time when the
market is looking on this very
favorably.
>> And buying time at a time when you have
a midterm election, it's peak driving
season, and [music] you cannot afford $5
a gallon gasoline.
>> And now it is below $4 for the first
time since March. Coming up, Jennifer
Huddleston of the Cato Institute as AI
leaders [music]
make their case at G7. That's coming up
next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> This is one of the most interesting
Thursdays I could imagine in terms of
price action. You have a risk on move,
particularly led by the tech stocks, but
not because of what you might think. We
did have a Fed meeting yesterday. You
might infer, oh wait a second, this is
because the Fed was dovish. Not in the
slightest. [music] This is because oil
prices are falling. Nasdaq futures up
1.6%.
You could also see the Russell 2000 up
1.2% again. You would think, "Oh, this
comes from a Fed that is easing off some
of the rate hiking expectations that
have been baked [music] into the
market." Right now, if you expected
that, you would be completely wrong. If
you take a look at twos, tens, and 30s,
you can see that two-year yield
continuing to just grind a little bit
higher after yesterday seeing the
biggest one-day move in that two-year
for a Fed day going [music] back to
2008. Almost back at that 4.2 level on
that two-year with a rate hike baked in.
You could see a rally into the long end
of the curve. This is the yield curve
flattening that we have seen in a pretty
violent fashion over the past couple of
hours. 30-year yields now 4.88%. [music]
But a lot of this is overlaid with oil
prices. And if you take a look at oil
prices at the lowest since the beginning
of March, you can understand, Amage, how
this really is the driving story right
now. A deal in Iran is enough to give
this market more ammunition to go up
that much further.
>> And it's not just the fact that the
president signed the deal last night.
The negotiations are going to continue
to work out some of the more difficult
issues, especially when it comes to
nuclear with the regime. It's the fact
that we are actually starting to see an
uptick of oil through the Strait of
Hormuz. And as you noted, we're seeing
tankers that have their transponders on.
They aren't trying to do this, you know,
in in the middle of the night with their
transponders off to sneak by. The Strait
of Hormuz is slowly starting to open.
Now, is it going to take a lot of time
to get those 600 vessels that have been
trapped out? Yes, but this is moving in
the right direction. The market sees
more barrels are coming on.
>> And they see this is being a long-term
phenomenon. If you take a look at the
December contracts of both WTI and
Brent, WTI, it's less than $72, down
from a high of about $85 last month.
When you take a look at the Brent
December contract, $76. That is down
from a high of $93. But, Amage, this
[music] is a huge shift in expectations.
>> Well, this is why the IEA the other day
came out and said we will see demand
destruction 2026. [music] We're seeing
that now, especially in parts of Asia.
We have seen some of that. But, what
they're seeing for next year [music] is
a supply glut.
>> Right now, at 3 hours away from the cash
open, some really interesting stories
under the hood as well. Here are your
morning movers with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie.
>> Yeah, Lisa. Beyond the fact that we have
a general market enthusiasm showing up
in equity index futures today, you have
Intel up 9%. This after the president
tweeted [music] out that Apple is going
to work with Intel on US domestic chip
production. Now, this is a huge boon for
Apple, which has been trying to find
external customers, right? To build
domestically. [music]
Apple has already had discussions with
Intel, and of course the president's
citing the example of Nvidia and Elon
Musk's Terafab project.
Bear in mind, Apple has surged fourfold
since the US invested in it last August.
We're also seeing an Apple impact on
memory chip makers today, right? Apple's
[music] CEO Tim Cook gave an interview
to the Wall Street Journal, in which he
said they were finally going to have to
up prices because it was just becoming
unsustainable, [music]
the memory chip price increase. That, of
course, might mean good things for
memory chip makers and their margins.
And you can see Western Digital,
Sandisk, and Micron all up to the tune
of 4% plus [music] today. And then we're
also keeping an eye on SpaceX, of
course, as well. Very volatile day. It
was up 4% and down 7% at various points
in the market session. However, [music]
with yesterday's move, it just gave up
the previous day's gains, right?
Yesterday was down 5%. Looking to a
small decline right now again, but we're
still at 190, more than 40% above that
IPO price. [music]
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. I don't think
anyone's crying about that, at least not
if they're holding the shares. On our
radar this morning, the US and Iran
signing an interim deal to end the war
and reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
President Trump defending the deal with
some Republicans saying it amounts to a
victory for Tehran. The agreement will
go into immediate effect. Fed Chair
Kevin Warsh ushering in a wave of change
at the central bank.
>> I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas. You'll hear quite a bit more
about these task forces. That'll be
taken up by the task force. We've got a
task force for that. The good news for
you is we have a task force for that. We
have a task force on that, too. I've
been on a task force or two in my life.
It's one of the things we have a task
force to do.
>> So, there's going to be a task force for
that. We're saying five task forces will
consist of internal and outside experts
to advise the Fed on core objectives.
And Microsoft growing its footprint in
China despite the heated AI arms race
with the US selling models from OpenAI
and its Azure cloud services to top
Chinese firms, including over a billion
dollars in orders from ByteDance. A
really interesting moment right now
given some of the pushback in the US
given the US tech firms and certain bans
over in China. They say it's a
independent operation, but at a certain
point you start wondering if the lines
are getting blurred.
>> Do you know who's going to be interested
in this? There's a congressional task
force when it comes to China, the China
Select Committee. And this is something
that I imagine is going to irk them.
Microsoft thinks this is useful to have
this presence presence in China. And the
president Brad Smith actually said
recently during congressional testimony,
it's relatively small amount of money
they're making there, 1.5% of overall
revenue. That's not the issue. Fact of
the matter is this administration has
serious export controls on Anthropic
right now, and their two models that
they don't want in the hands of
adversaries. Are they going to start to
do that and follow through and tell
other firms like Microsoft, we want you
to dial back the work you're doing in
Beijing.
>> It's not just congressional task force.
It's also OpenAI. OpenAI is not pleased
either because they're worried about
China distilling some of their models
and then replicating them in the region.
The bigger question here is what kind of
firewalls are there? The reason why one
company gets an advantage in being in
many different places, particularly the
US and China, is you get exposure to
both areas and you can share information
in a way that can add to the development
of new things. How much can they do that
if there truly is a firewall? At what
point are they benefiting? They might
say this is a very small part of sales,
but it's a rapidly growing and they are
very proud of it in internal calls.
>> Exactly. And also this comes from a
place where we know have had issues with
intellectual property theft, have had
issues with harm harmful uses. The
technology is potentially moving faster
than the regulation can and catch up.
But I think the direction of travel is
more towards the Anthropic root of the
world, not what Microsoft is doing.
>> Let's stick with tech. AI executives
pitching their case at the G7 summit.
Anthropic boss Dario Amodei arguing
world leaders to quote resist the
temptation to splinter over the roll out
of advanced AI models. Jennifer
Huddleston of the Cato Institute
writing, "There is a conversation about
the role voluntary international
standards could play in AI. Industry
agreements and norms could be an
alternative to more heavy-handed
regulation." Jennifer joins us now from
more. Jennifer, there are two issues
here. On one hand, there's an issue of
national supremacy when it comes to AI
dominance. On the other, it's actual
security as some of these models get
ahead of what a lot of people are
prepared for. Which do you think is the
more pressing concern for national
leaders?
>> You know, we've certainly seen a debate
recently about what is the best way to
have a conversation around AI and around
some of these serious cybersecurity
risks. We saw this weekend export
controls imposed and kind of an an
attempt to limit any foreign nationals,
including allies, from accessing
Anthropic's most advanced model Fable.
So as we're starting to see these
conversations at the G7, I think there
is a kind of question of what can be
done, particularly given American
leadership in AI, to ensure that there
is a serious discussion around
cybersecurity, but not one that could
harm the industry long-term or create
these kind of scenarios in the future.
>> Do you see any pathway, Jennifer, to
getting industry norms that would be
accepted by competitors that could set
them back versus say pedal to the metal,
go forward and try to develop as
advanced technology and systems as you
can.
You know, we have seen that these
companies are thinking a lot about
safety in their own sense. We saw this
when Mythos first launched that there
was an attempt to keep it very small to
make sure that they were testing the
product before they launched it more
widely. So, if there were potential
vulnerabilities that they could
self-address. There also can be
opportunities to voluntarily provide
this information in certain cases.
Again, something that allows that kind
of innovation and the changes in models
and what is a very dynamic industry
versus a having to prove that there's no
risk at all type of scenario that we
could see with more heavy-handed
regulation.
>> These AI leaders met amongst the
president with other leaders, notably
European leaders. How big is the gap
right now to where the Europeans want to
regulate AI and where the United States
does?
>> As we've seen with other technologies in
the past, there's a pretty significant
gap. The EU has its AI Act that is a
much more regulatory approach when it
comes to AI. Additionally, we've also
seen other laws like the Digital Markets
Act come into play with some of the
companies not being able to launch their
most advanced products. For example, the
latest AI-enabled iPhone isn't going to
immediately be available with that
feature when it launches in Europe. We
are seeing that the the US continues to
try and take this light touch approach.
And while there's discussion of a
congressional framework of further
actions around issues like cybersecurity
that may need to be more specifically
addressed or have norms established,
there does seem to be a continuation of
this trend where Europe seeks to
regulate tech companies while American
companies are the leaders in innovation.
>> Jennifer, in some aspects they're taking
a light-handed approach, but not when it
comes to Anthropic. These are serious
export controls and it's very
heavy-handed. So, do you see the
administration potentially rolling back
those export controls? What kind of deal
do you see them getting done with
Anthropic?
>> You're right to to out the distinction
here. We've seen several actions
recently, whether it was calls to invest
in American AI companies, whether it was
something like the export controls on
Anthropic that we recently saw that
seemed to be a deviation from this more
approach that has focused on regulation
that could really allow innovation to
take off and that very light-hand
approach. So, we are continuing to see
that this administration isn't just
looking in terms of how do we build that
framework. There are serious concerns
that have raised around how this could
be picking winners and losers in this
very dynamic space, as well as concerns
about how this could impact speech or
privacy rights of Americans and of
American innovators.
>> Jennifer, when this first came out in
terms of mythos and the potential threat
that we were hearing from Anthropic,
there was some speculation that it was
overdone, a way of trying to make them
feel like their models were essential,
important, and must-have for different
companies regardless of how expensive.
But, as we've talked to an increasing
number of executives, there is real
worry there about what some of these
models can do. And Christine Lagarde
raised the specter of a possible
financial crisis as this gets rolled
out. From your perspective, can you just
put into some sort of light how serious
the risk is and how seriously different
executives are taking this?
>> With any model, with any technology,
there's going to be a risk of harm as
well as a risk of benefits. And one of
the things that I think we're seeing is
that executives, companies are realizing
they have to prepare both for the
benefits of AI and also making sure
things like their cybersecurity are
up-to-date. In addition to the
cybersecurity risk, we've also seen how
models like this can improve
cybersecurity, how they can identify
potential vulnerabilities and identify
potential attacks that can actually
allow companies to respond to those
quickly rather than having those
vulnerabilities exploited.
>> Jennifer Huddleston of the Cato
Institute, thank you for being with us.
And I will just say on having some of
these AI leaders in the world stage
really highlights how much they have
become the heads of state of their own
essentially. There's their size of a
state and the influence of a state as
well.
>> Well, if you truly believe their
technology is a new industrial
revolution, it's going to impact every
single economy. And if you're concerned
that it's going to get in the hands of
adversaries and this has to be a work in
progress with your allies, which is why
it was pretty incredible to see all of
these leaders there at the G7. At the
same time, there are discussions
underway of how this administration
might take an equity stake in some of
those companies.
>> Yeah, and we'll talk more about that
coming up. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Isabelle Lee. Isabelle.
>> [music]
>> Hi Lisa, President Trump signing an
interim deal to end the war with Iran
and reopen the Strait of Hormuz. The
president insisting Iran will never
obtain a nuclear weapon, but has the
right to enrich uranium for electricity,
access [music] frozen funds, and develop
ballistic missiles.
And gas prices dipping below $4 a gallon
for the first time since March.
According to AAA, the national average
for regular unleaded is now $3.99.
Prices are [music] still well above
where they were before the war and
aren't expected to return to those
levels until next year.
And this is for Anne-Marie, a historic
day in New York, the Knicks getting
their first ever ticker tape parade.
[music] The parade through the canyons
of heroes kicking off at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern and is expected to draw millions
of fans. Some fans are paying as much as
$950
for professional line sitters to secure
a front row view. So, that's a lot.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Isabelle. I just want
to note that Anne-Marie is getting the
mug ready. [music] She's putting her
hair together. She's getting her orange
and blue outfit prepared. This is your
last day.
>> to the parade. It's too intense. Also,
you have to line up. You would have had
to line up 45 minutes ago.
>> Well, my phone is blowing up with people
saying the subways are packed with
Knicks fans. It's going to be crazy. Get
there very early. You can't bring a bag.
So, it seems like by the time we get off
the show, you know, it's work. Work got
in the way.
>> Oh, clearly. That's what we're going to
say. That's why she didn't pay $950 to
have a line sitter get in for her. At
this point though, we can expect that
maybe her blue and orange outfit has
been fully stocked.
>> we don't want anyone to think it's for
the Mets after the Knicks pandemonium is
over.
>> up next, we can have a little bit of
love for the Mets and the Yankees.
[music]
Go New York. Up next, the Hawkish Chart.
>> We have the capability and commitment to
deliver on our price stability [music]
objective of 2%. That's exactly what
we're going to do. The commitment to
deliver is strong, unanimous, and
unambiguous.
>> Kai Rhee of Goldman Sachs joins next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Here's Sophie.
The enthusiasm in markets continues
despite some sell-off in the bond
market. Let's take a look at what's
going on. You can see equities [music]
bleeding higher, grinding upward. 8/10
of a percent gain on S&P futures. You're
seeing a bigger outperformance [music]
from the tech sector. You are seeing
dollar strength. Watch the Japanese yen
that yesterday was flirting with some of
the highest level or the lowest levels,
I should say,
>> [music]
>> versus the dollar, the weakest levels
going back to 2024. This morning you're
seeing it across all of the G10
currencies, euro 114.64.
>> [music]
>> And 10-year yields going lower. This is
interesting, the yield curve flattening
that has come back to the market with
the expectations of rate hikes with
crude uh now lower by 1.7% $75.49.
[music]
The story really yesterday into the
afternoon after the Fed meeting was that
2-year yield that jumped 13 basis points
[music] on the day, the biggest one-day
increase going back for a Fed meeting to
2008. And we're looking right now at the
two-year yield continuing to grind
higher, getting close to the levels
where it was on February of 2025.
[music]
Under surveillance this morning, the
hawkish turn.
>> We have the capability and commitment to
deliver on our price stability objective
of 2%. That's exactly what we're going
to do. In the Fed's review of its
strategy, the Fed's statement says that
inflation is primarily determined by
monetary policy. You bet it is. The
commitment to deliver is strong,
unanimous, and unambiguous.
>> Here's the latest Fed chair, Kevin
Warsh, vowing to get inflation under
control [music] at his first policy
meeting with nearly half of the
committee forecasting higher rates by
the end of this year. Kai He of
Kai He of Goldman Sachs writing, "Our
base case remains that the Fed can just
about avoid hikes, but the path is
narrow, and there will be a high premium
on the incoming inflation data." Kai
joins us now for more. Kai, thank you so
much for being with us. Let's just start
there in terms of your reaction and
whether you changed anything in your
rate hiking expectations as a result.
>> Oh, good morning. Look, the clearly the
meeting was unambiguously
hawkish,
but there was a lot more actually that
we would like to focus on. I think the
the the the communication was extremely
clear
prioritizing inflation in the short term
and making making it very data dependent
as to how the Fed is going to react at
the next meeting. So, what does that
mean for our expectations? Look, it
means two things really. The first one
is we will also look and track the data
very, very closely,
particularly inflation data,
particularly to understand how sticky
inflation will be and continues to be.
But then there's a second factor, and
looking at the two-year yield chart, Um,
I think we will see much more volatility
in the two-year sector going forward and
that's a combination of firstly,
you know, focusing on inflation, calming
down the longer end of the curve, and
seeing that flattening action.
And then a lot of commentary around kind
of forward guidance indicating that
there will be less of it. The
The Fed will be more data dependent and
a lot of that will translate into into
two-year volatility. So, we will see
much more of the price action type of
price action that we saw last week.
>> The irony, Kai, is that we could see
less volatility at the long end. Right?
I mean, how much does this actually
increase your expectations of stability
at the long end of the yield curve and
endorse some people who have been going
into duration as a result of this
promise to get to price stability.
>> Yeah, great great question. Look, it's
early days,
but I think the chairman started off
very very well in terms of
reducing volatility at the long end. And
and we spoke about, you know, the impact
communication will have
and the clear focus on inflation. There
are also these task forces that that
that he alluded to yesterday and they
were very clearly designed to kind of
re-examine the kind of operating model
of the Fed.
And we're very curious as to how that
develops. If, you know, if there are
other sources of data, different
inflation framework, communication, and
all of those things, we need to see how
that pans out, but that could very well
translate into into less volatility at
the long end, which in our view would
make it much more attractive for
investors.
>> Right. Basically, what Kevin Warsh said
in announcing all these task forces, are
you actually more interested in buying
Treasuries now?
>> The task forces themselves, we don't we
don't think right now are are going to
drive kind of allocation into into
duration, but I I very much the kind of
focus on inflation and you know, keeping
the long end under control, the Fed
doing its job and getting inflation
closer to the target. All of that is
very supportive for for Treasuries. So,
yes, at the margin that's a positive.
>> We've seen individuals on the Fed get
concerned with higher oil prices.
Obviously, this is all coinciding with
the fact that we have this deal the
president signed. We're actually seeing
more ships move through the Strait of
Hormuz. Did you get a sense that Kevin
Warsh is concerned about other parts of
inflation as well? And where are those
other parts?
>> Okay, I think he said very clearly yes
today that second third order effects
are important, right? So,
um
you know, we've we've got to now track a
little bit um the the kind of reduction
in the oil price and how far it will
drop because of course
you know, there's every every indication
that um countries are going to replenish
their reserves and that's going to put
some upward pressure on oil. So, we've
got to see where the equilibrium gets
to. Um
But then the second and third order
effects are very very important, right?
Um he he he talked a little bit about
the housing market, he talked a little
bit about the financial markets,
financial conditions. Um we're going to
continue to focus on the labor market
and see how that develops. So, I think
you're right. It is not just the price
of oil, but how that propagates
throughout the economy that will be very
important.
>> Kai, this is my stock question to
everyone in fixed income who comes on
this morning. Are you on any task
forces?
>> No, I'm not.
>> Okay.
>> Well, this is to me uh
>> [laughter]
>> going to be a key question. You may not
yet, you but the door is open. A key
question for a lot of people is going to
be exactly who are shaping some of these
expectations.
>> So, there were five different task
forces. They are uh a range of different
issues from communications, balance
sheet data sources, productivity and
employment in era of AI, and sources of
inflation. Kai, how concerned are you
about the balance sheet? We've heard
about that as one of his goals, and that
directly feeds into liquidity given some
of the tweaks that the Fed has made
around the edges that have really fueled
a wave of liquidity at least earlier
this year.
>> Well, let's see what comes out of that
debate. Actually, the politics is that
there will be a debate, there will be a
task force, and and and and people will
look at that.
Um, you know, it is not just the size of
the balance sheet, but the speed of
reduction. It is not just only the speed
of reduction, it's it's then also what
will be the kind of duration of the
issue and stat that that the Treasury
will bring to the market. So, there's a
lot of variables um that are important.
In principle, the idea of reducing the
balance sheet in a kind of controlled
environment um is not necessarily a bad
one. Um, so we let's see how that
evolves. Um, but I I wouldn't call it a
concern at this point.
>> Kai, when you do get called for the task
force, please let us know and we'll have
you on to talk about uh what some of the
details are. Kai Hey of Goldman Sachs,
really appreciate your insights as we
analyze what we heard yesterday. Really
putting a stamp yesterday on the Federal
Reserve.
>> Oh, yeah, Kevin Warsh came out swinging.
Everything we were speculating
potentially he could do, he delivered
on. There was no dot. He talked about
price stability. The statement was much
shorter, less word count, and this is
what we can expect going forward. Also,
shorter answers. There is going to be
less communication and less forward
guidance or no forward guidance from
this Federal Reserve chair.
>> We've also talked about how the ECB is a
single mandate central bank. We've
talked about other central banks and how
that's been a bug, not a feature. He
seemed to indicate maybe it was the
other way around, talking much more
about inflation, not necessarily
employment, and said one line,
"Inflation has been running well ahead
of the Fed's long-stated inflation goal
of 2%." "That's been going on for more
than 5 years." And in his words, "That's
got to end now."
>> When Neil Dutta heard what all of this
was about, he put out a note and said,
"This concludes" He He concluded noting
that the FOMC would deliver price
stability reminds me of the single
mandate stuff from Paul Ryan. And
actually some individuals that we've
seen hired by Kevin [music] Warsh, some
of them have been proponents of just
looking at price stability and
inflation. So, it's not just the Fed,
other central banks also on deck coming
up next. Pooja Skromra of TD Securities
as we get a Bank of England decision.
Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence, Anastasia Amoroso of
Partners Group, and former Kansas City
Fed President Esther George.
>> [music]
>> Maybe she's on a task force. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas
that are central to the broad conduct of
monetary policy.
>> This is a welcome thing. The Fed needed
to change. Maybe it is time that they
try different approach.
>> He seems to be very smart about [music]
getting everybody on his side and
getting the consensus.
>> You have Warsh basically
telling you we're going to get rid of
the dot plot. The task [music] force has
uh its its job ahead of it.
>> actually kind of a positive tone about
both the economy and the functioning of
the institution.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoerdern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks rising on the heels
of a deal between the US and Iran. Oil
prices plunging. Equity traders [music]
shrugging off a hawkish turn by the US
Central Bank yesterday. Bond markets
digesting a hawkish turn more broadly
around the world. The Bank of England
just dropping their decision. No change
and necessarily keeping their guidance
that they [music] stand by to act on
inflation. And Andrew Bailey, the
governor of the Bank of England, saying
that the pressures from the Iran war are
still in the pipeline despite [music]
the truce. Highlighting the concern here
that even though there is a deal with
respect [music] to the US and Iran, that
doesn't end all of the concerns. But how
quickly do those pressures start to
ease? [music] Because at the same time
that we just got this BOE decision and
they are concerned about where they are
seeing the elevation of energy costs,
Iran is releasing the text of the N MOU
and says that Iran will arrange for
Hormuz ship passage with no charge for
60 days. So, I think Norm Roule put this
really well earlier in the program,
talking about the fact that this is
really an end of military hostilities.
It's a high-value pause [music] in the
current fighting and current scenario,
and 60 days we are going to see a large
number of of vessels be able to safely
[music] get out of the Strait of Hormuz.
>> Just to note that this was a 7-2
decision in terms of seven people voting
[music] to keep rates at 3.75%.
Two members voting to increase the bank
[music] rate by 0.25% each point. So, on
the margins, a bit of a hawkish tilt.
Lizzie Burden has more. Let's head over
to Lizzie for the details. Lizzie.
>> Lisa, this is exactly as expected. The
Bank of England doing absolutely
nothing, keeping rates at 3.75%.
It's hard to see as hawkish as the
European Central Bank, which of course
hiked rates last week or to match the
hawkish message from the Fed last night
our time. Plus, there's good reason not
to be as hawkish in the UK. We had
inflation yesterday coming in softer
than expected. Oil prices, of course,
dropping on this US-Iran memorandum of
understanding. At the last BOE meeting,
we were above $100 a barrel on Brent,
and now we're sub 80. But of course, the
Bank of England wants to wait and see
what happens geopolitically and how it
feeds into the domestic economy as well.
So, as you say, Andrew Bailey here
saying that pressures from the Iran war
are still in the pipeline despite the
truce. They want to see what happens
over the next 60 days and beyond. Now,
the vote split, as you say, 7-2 as
expected. In terms of the guidance, no
change. They stand ready to act on
inflation, they say. And so, looking
ahead,
traders have been [clears throat]
pricing in one more Bank of England rate
hike for this year. Economists saying
maybe they'll just be on hold for the
rest of the year and the next move could
be a cut. And if you look at the market
reaction here, the pound pretty much
where it was before this decision, down
5/10 of a percent at $1.32.
Gilt yields on the two-year up six basis
points at 420. So again, pretty much
where we were before all of this cuz
you've got to take into account the Fed,
take into account the war, and the
politics that's going on in the UK
today. A special election which could be
having its own impact on UK markets.
>> Lizzie Burden, thank you so much as
always for breaking that down. Right
now, also you're looking at the pound
versus the dollar losing cloud pretty
significantly down about a half a
percent as you see it fall to 132.19
versus the dollar. Again, this sort of
points to the question of how high the
bar has gotten for other countries and
other central banks as a result of the
Fed's hawkish turn. They've been making
it easier by being somewhat dovish
relative to the others.
>> Absolutely. For the rest of the world,
Kevin Warsh coming out as his old Kevin
Warsh a hawk plus on top of that the MOU
coming out from the President of the
United States and potentially could be
easing some pressure on energy prices.
That's going to help the rest of central
banks.
>> So, bond markets are reeling in all of
this information. Here's the view from
Wall Street. Pooja Kumra of TD
Securities writing, "Upside risks
remain. We postpone our call for a last
Bank of England rate cut from the
November meeting to April of 2027."
Pooja joins us now for more. Pooja,
thanks for being here. Can the Bank of
England wait so long given some of the
pressure now coming from the US Central
Bank?
>> I totally agree with you, but when it
comes to BOE, they do have a trade-off
between higher inflation as well as
weaker output. I think at this stage,
even by staying on hold, they are being
restrictive. But again, we this is
something that we are we are dealing
with on a rolling basis. And as with
like all central banks, BOE has been
pretty much blatant that they are ready
to act if required. I think price
action-wise we are acting much more than
what we got from the statement. I think
primarily because it's it's a Fed effect
that we are seeing in markets today.
>> Right now, I'm wondering how much,
Pooja, you think that inflation will
ultimately be proven to be an overstated
story as a result of the MOU with Iran,
of this idea that potentially ships are
already starting to go through the
Strait of Hormuz?
>> So, I I mean, I don't think central
banks want to be actually complacent
right now because I think the key thing,
right, is not just the spot prices of
oil. It's how you look at the forward
futures when it comes to oil, and that's
not coming back that quickly to the 60
level, which means that most of the
central banks have to deal with elevated
inflation pressures. I think for BOE,
the only different thing is that our
starting ground when it comes to economy
has been weaker.
And that is something why we feel that
even if they act, they are going to be
the last of all the central banks here.
>> When it comes to the ECB, given what
we're seeing with the BOE standing on a
hold, do you think the ECB acted too
soon?
>> I don't think so. I I In terms of First
of all, they they did not, as Lagarde
has been pointing out, that that wasn't
an insurance hike. I think they were
pretty much clear that the inflation
pressures were going everywhere.
Whatever data, whatever the model that
they were following when it comes to
inflation expectations from consumer
households, as well as the PMI, that
suggested that some form of restriction
was needed. I think what is the
difference between ECB and BOE is ECB
was at neutral, and BOE is at
restrictive policy. So, you know, ECB
had to make the first move to come a bit
more restrictive.
>> Given the fact that we are seeing oil
prices lower, Lisa talked about what's
going on with the MOU. The Iranians have
released the text. Ships are actually
moving through.
Do you think the ECB is just one and
done now?
>> Um in all the scenarios, it was never
one and done. Uh they need at least one
or two I mean the minimum they talked
about was two hikes, right? Um I would I
think the the the scenario with respect
to the war definitely says that July
possibly remains a hold, but September
if the situation still remains the same
I your elevated oil prices, if the
disruption is not yet done, ECB will be
ready to act and I think that is a clear
message that we got from the meeting.
And uh we also keep that option open. I
think for BOE it's a tricky one whether
they still want to hike when the economy
the signals are not that strong because
if they hike here, it is hurting the
economy and especially it's not just
about monetary policy ever in UK. We
have the fiscal policy as well as a
political
policy also coming in and
uh hurting the markets.
>> Pooja Commin of TD Securities, thank you
so much for being with us as we get that
Bank of England decision to hold rates
at 3.75%.
The tone was set yesterday with a very
hawkish Federal Reserve a new Federal
Reserve with Kevin Warsh taking the helm
the fifth central bank head going back
30 years. Michael McKee was there in the
room. He joins us now. Mike, it seems
like that was a press conference that
may not become the status quo going
forward. He might pick and choose when
he has press conferences.
>> Yeah, that was one of the top questions
I think not just because I asked it, but
everybody wants to know what kind of
communications are the Warsh Fed
officials going to be making and the
press conference has become a major
thing for the markets in terms of
understanding what the Fed is
doing. And so if they change that, it's
going to take away a lot of information
especially if suddenly Kevin Warsh the
chair of the group is not as accessible
as he used to be. So, we'll have to wait
and see what they decide in their task
force, but it is something that the
people might have to get used to.
>> Task force was definitely the keyword in
a drinking game, a drinking water of
course yesterday. During the press
conference, Mike, there was a sense
though that nine out of the 18 members
did vote to or did put in their dots the
idea of a rate hike this year. Was your
sense that that was more verbiage that
it was a desire to take action?
>> No, I think it is a real desire to take
action.
There had been a growing sense among
members of the Open Market Committee
that they really needed to do something
about inflation because not only is it
rising, but it has not gone in the
direction
of 2% for quite some time. And they
haven't hit 2% in more than 5 years. So,
they really started to think that this
could unsettle inflation expectations
and people could begin to think,
especially with talk about
changing monetary policy under Kevin
Warsh, people could begin to think that
inflation is going to be regularly
higher and they don't want that to
happen. So,
the pressure has been building for some
months. We saw it right after the first
of the year when we started to see
people dissent or talk about the idea of
the Fed on hold, then it became more
people thinking maybe we should change
the guidance so that people know we
could raise rates if we need to. And now
you've got nine people who think that
they should raise rates.
>> Michael McKee, thank you so much and
great reporting yesterday. Hey Michelle,
a lot of this has to do with oil prices.
That was one of the real reasons why
everybody got really concerned about
inflation. The re-acceleration, yes,
coming from other places, but most
notably within gasoline. I mean, really,
this is the key question. How much does
that pressure ease rapidly as we're
seeing in the oil futures market? Well,
right now, you have Brent and WTI both
with $70 handles. You have gasoline
under $4 a gallon. That's pretty
extraordinary given the fact that the
Strait of Hormuz is just beginning to
really open today with this MOU. We do
have to remember though how difficult is
this going to be? I'm looking through
some of these headlines coming from the
Iranian text that they that they just
released. How the US won't impose any
new sanctions, how there's not going to
be any tolls for 60 days. It all sounds
great for 60 days. What happens after?
Yeah, Norm saying that it could
potentially be 60 days. It could be as
potentially long
for a bit longer.
>> The idea though that the Bank of England
highlighted that they are looking to
understand how quickly these pressures
abate given that everybody needs to
restock their inventories. The US the
Cushing metric coming to its lowest
level going back to 2004.
>> Everyone has used their inventories.
We're living on those buffers right now.
So not only do we need to replenish
those buffers, but also get to places
that have had demand destruction to
places like Asia. But looking out to
next year and you brought up what's
going on in futures. We are seeing lower
prices in December. You're seeing a $69
handle when it comes to this time next
year. And the IEA saying, "Well, guess
what? We're going to have a supply
glut."
>> All right. Well, let's get you other
stories that are happening this morning
and not just on the Long [music] Island
Expressway. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Isabelle Lee. Isabelle.
>> Hi Lisa. Iran's president publishing the
text of the interim deal between Tehran
and the US on X. Some of the details
include traffic of commercial vehicles
through the Strait of Hormuz to start
immediately with no charge for 60 days.
As well as the US will fully end its
naval blockade in 30 days. [music]
And Intel shares surging in pre-market.
President Donald Trump saying the chip
maker will work alongside Apple to
produce design to design and produce
semiconductors domestically.
>> [music]
>> Trump posting on Truth Social, "I
decided to help Intel because we need to
design and build our chips right here in
America." And in sports, England beating
Croatia 4 to 2 at the World Cup. The
British captain Harry Kane scoring two
goals bringing [music] his career World
Cup total to 10. Jude Bellingham and
Marcus Rashford also scoring for the
three lions. That's your Bloomberg
Brief. Lisa? [music]
>> Thank you so much, Isabelle. Up next,
signing a deal with Iran.
>> My whole life is all about deals. That's
all I ever did is make deals. If they
don't honor the agreement, it will
probably go back to bombing them.
>> Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence joining next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The rally holding in US equity markets
despite the hawkish tilt across the
world from central banks. Right now
you're seeing equities rallying up about
7/10 of a percent on the S&P futures
higher, although pulling back just a
touch from where they were earlier.
Really the outperformance in big tech
and frankly the Russell 2000 with yields
lower on the long end right now. 10-year
yields 4.46% [music]
Watch for that yield curve flattening
that has really reasserted itself in
strong form and crude prices. Driving a
lot of the enthusiasm down almost 2% on
WTI to $75.38. [music]
Question how much this can hold given
the restocking that's necessary, the
deal that still is ongoing. I mean there
still is quite a bit of uncertainty.
[music]
>> Right, but we did get the MOU text. The
Iranian president has released it on
Twitter. Iran to arrange for ship
passage through the Strait of Hormuz
with no charge for 60 days. So obviously
what happens after that, no Arab country
is going to accept a fee [music] that of
an international waterway. Neither would
the United States. So you do see
potentially some issues that that going
to brew, but they're being put down the
road. [music] The can is being kicked,
and for right now, this is good news
because it's not only what they're
saying, it's what they're doing, and we
are seeing some vessels [music] be able
to now traverse the strait.
>> I just balance this morning signing a
deal with Iran.
>> My whole life is all about deals. That's
all I ever did is make deals. If they
don't
honor the agreements, we'll probably go
back to bombing them.
>> Here's the latest, President Donald
Trump signing an interim peace deal with
Iran last night. Bloomberg's Lori
Davidson joins us now for more. Laura,
we did get some confirmation as MH was
talking about from the Iranian side.
What's the latest?
>> Um so, the latest is that the this
4-point 14-point plan has essentially
been confirmed and by both sides, which
is really a first for the past 4 months
that we've had a lot of mixed messaging
come from the Iranian side and the US
side. So, that is a step forward.
However, um this this deal um you know,
while it does uh you know, allow for the
the Strait of Hormuz to start opening up
at least toll free for for 60 days, um
it also has some financial benefits in
there for Iran sort of as an incentive
uh for moving forward with this a a
potentially a $300 billion um economic
development fund, the easing of some
waivers, and also um down the line some
access to its frozen assets. Um it's
being panned uh by uh by several uh you
know, both the Israelis aren't very
happy with this deal, as well as in the
US. Um even some of from Trump's own
party, some Iran hawks, have said that
this deal gives too much away and that
the US really only gets a pledge in
advance while Iran gets some tangible
benefits. Um you know, this really uh is
just the starting line here. This really
starts the talks for more thorny issues
on what the future of Iran's nuclear
program looks like and what a more
lasting peace looks like in the in the
region and what the future of the Strait
of Hormuz looks like. But for right now,
we're seeing positivity in the markets.
Uh we'll see where we are uh 60 days
from now.
>> Laura, why was it brought forward? The
initial expectation was for the MOU to
be signed on Friday. It was brought
forward to last night. Do we have a
sense of what was behind that?
>> Um a COUPLE DIFFERENT THINGS. ONE, UH
TRUMP HAPPENED to be at Versailles uh
for a dinner, sort of the the home the
birthplace of, you know, big uh global
treaties. So, there's a little bit of a
sort of a a photo-op and sort of a
symbolism there that the White House was
looking to project. Um, there was also
some uncertainty about exactly, uh, you
know, what was signed on Sunday. They
signed it again, uh, you know,
yesterday. And then, uh, you know,
potentially there is still talks about
some sort of in-person signing in
Switzerland. So, this will be the deal,
uh, that will be, uh, signed, uh, on
multiple, multiple occasions.
>> Bloomberg Sarah Davison, thank you so
much for being with us. Colonel Wayne
Sanders of Bloomberg Intelligence joins
us now. He, uh, was also at Versailles.
Maybe not. I don't know. How many people
can say, "Oh, I just happen to be at
Versailles." Colonel, I'm just curious
from your perspective, what you think
has been accomplished with the signing
of this deal?
>> I think the the biggest thing that I
like about what's going on now is that
it's given the 60 days right up front
and saying this is where we're actually
trying to go. The opening for Iran's
side of the house, the fact that they
actually have one singular voice right
now that's a saying that we're moving
forward with this deal, is a really good
sign. Up until now, we've heard from
President Trump say, "Hey, the things
are moving forward." But then we would
hear multiple different things from
either an IRGC counterpart or, uh, for
the presidency, uh, side of the house on
Iran. So, the fact that this is actually
a solid effort coming out from them, uh,
I think is a really good sign right now.
>> From who? Cuz I know the president tweet
The Iranian president tweeted the MOU,
but The Iranian president most normally,
historically, focuses on domestic
issues. Who is really the
decision-maker?
>> Well, so, uh, you know, I I called it a
a four-headed hydra before. Uh, when you
when you think about it in terms of
supreme allied leader, uh, from the
theocratic side of the house, you also
then have the the presidency, you have
IRGC, and then you also have members,
uh, from the the chief justice side of
the house. So, really all four of them
have to speak in one. But the fact that
what we haven't seen when the president
was putting this out is we haven't seen
something that's come back from the IRGC
or somebody else that is actually
refuting what the president put down.
And they've had a little bit of time to
do that at this point in time. I would
have expected it by now.
>> Yeah, this is the new supreme leader
that said the only place for Americans
in the Persian Gulf Gulf is at the
bottom of its waters. How serious can we
take that this is going to be a
strategic win for this administration
given the red lines this president has
talked about for years.
>> I I think one of the biggest pieces
there is there's always going to be some
type of messaging right there. It is It
is part of the way that uh that Iran
actually leverages power is to be able
to hold on to that. Uh that's
specifically. But in terms of the
military side of the house, you've seen
most of what uh the US has done to their
military capacity. It is more in the
asymmetric threat that is remaining.
That is still part of the piece that
needs to be uh dealt with over the next
60 days.
Uh so from a strategic win on the US
side of the house, opening up the Strait
of Hormuz right now is uh is one of
Trump's uh probably biggest ones he's
going to be able to put out. Dismantling
their military so that their ability to
come out and reach the United States to
protect the homeland, I think is another
one of those key pieces of as well as
the Gulf state security. Uh and you've
seen a lot of that coming from uh from
Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Kuwait and
beyond.
>> When we look at asymmetric warfare, how
long do you think it's going to take the
United States and its partners to
de-mine the strait?
>> So it
that's a very difficult one because of
uh right now a lot of the reporting is
that it's not that heavy. And if you
look at a lot of the capability that
Fifth Fleet has brought with them, they
have both uncrewed uh surface and
undersea vessels that actually do a lot
of this. They also have uh additional
aerial capability. So what you're going
to probably see is a phased approach to
make sure that you have a clear channel
within the channel, if you will. Uh so
that they can immediately come in and
say, "All right, here is the area that
you want to stay within." And then they
will slowly be able to start bringing it
out. But uh you're going to see that
initial piece. As you saw, some of the
tankers are already starting to flow
through. So it's going to stay. When uh
CENTCOM and Fifth Fleet started talking
about it taking multiple weeks, if not
months, they're talking about making
sure confirming the entirety of this
rate, even the areas that aren't being
traversed by the by the tankers.
>> Colonel Sanders, from a military
perspective, what happens during the
ceasefire? I mean, it's it's more than
that. It's a memorandum of
understanding, but it's a 60-day pause
where both sides can take stock of the
situation. Do you expect a rejiggering
in some the ammunition production? Do
you see some sort of shifting around of
troops returning to the US by some of
the naval operatives that have been on
the water for months?
>> I think what you're going to end up
seeing who rotates home potentially
after 30 days, right? I think that right
now everybody is a little hesitant to be
able to pull it back too far in terms of
what you're actually going to to bring
back. But you're going to see some of
your surge capabilities come home.
You're not going to have three strike
groups stay. You probably see some of
the extra carrier wings come home, some
of the strategic bomber fleets. But I
reminded everybody though, fifth fleet
headquarters is in Bahrain, right? So,
the naval presence of a lot of it is
still going to be around in that area in
case something went wrong, there would
be a very quick redeployment. You
wouldn't have to see a surge of those
strike groups to be able to come back.
Continued intelligence access assets as
well as fighter jets to keep air
superiority. Those things remain because
we have such a large presence from the
US. We have a large presence across some
of these Gulf bases. So, there's still
going to be quite a bit in the area.
>> Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. And as we're
talking, the oil prices and gasoline
prices for average Americans continues
to fall below $4 a barrel for the first
time going back to March 3.999%
on an average basis across the nation.
This was some speculated one of the key
red lines for the president, which was
getting oil prices lower ahead of the
midterm elections and providing one of
the last-ditch efforts of stimulus into
the market. Well, it's why everyone
thinks potentially he got rid of some of
the other red lines he has in terms of
their ballistic missile program that is
not explicitly addressed in this as well
as money to proxies because he's so
concerned with oil prices and energy
prices moving higher ahead of the
midterm elections. And it's not just
that today we're seeing vessels being
able to move with their transponders on
through the Strait of Hormuz. In the
MOU, the US is will issue waivers for
Iran oil exports
exports soon after the deal. So
basically, potentially we're going to a
see a statement in the next few days
from Treasury's OFAC that allows Iranian
crude to hit the market which will be
bring prices potentially down further.
It's pretty astonishing to see given the
fact that this was an administration
that was obsessed and kept pushing for
maximum pressure on this regime.
>> When you push that through the economy,
it's unclear exactly how that's going to
go. On one hand, there are stories about
prices increasing throughout a whole
metric of different places including
what we're seeing with respect to Apple.
We'll get to that in just a little bit
in terms of component prices and memory
costs. other hand,
we're looking at retail sales that have
been pretty robust across the board. How
does this factor into employment? We're
going to be getting
jobless claims. We haven't even
mentioned that in our time because
frankly the Fed seems less concerned
about what's going to be happening in
the labor market.
>> many times did Kevin Warsh say price
stability and we [music] will get back
to 2%? Well, then you have to think
inflation's coming from elsewhere. You
look what Apple's doing. What did Dan
Ives say this week? Compute is the new
oil and gas when it comes to that
[music] pricing, how critical it is to
the economy.
>> Yeah, we're going to be getting
>> those uh jobless claims right ahead of
the NYX parade which also is going to
stimulate [music] the US
>> Yes.
>> economy. Coming up, Anastasia Amoroso
Partners Group as markets react to the
Fed's hawkish hold plus Bonnie Quinn
with your morning movers Intel climbing
with the support of President Trump.
There is some heat to this market no
thanks to the Federal Reserve. That's
coming from oil prices falling. Take a
look at stocks. You can see the
outperformance coming from both what we
see in the tech sphere as well as the
Russell 2000. [music] Futures up by
about a percent on the Russell 2000 and
1.3% on the Nasdaq. Just fading a little
bit ahead of the open. It's S&P futures
up 7/10 of a percent. The bond space
fascinating. Yield curve flattening to
the tune we haven't seen in a couple of
years. Really market yesterday with a
hawkish tilt continuing this morning.
[music] The two-year yield up two basis
points to 4.2%. That long end coming in.
So, that's where the flattening comes
into play. Yesterday the 13 basis point
increase on the two-year yield was the
[music] most for any Fed meeting that
day going back to 2008. But really
[music] sucking the oxygen out of the
room, not just the Knicks, but also oil
prices where you do see them falling yet
again some of the lowest since the
beginning of March. Brent crude $78.70
down about 1%. WTI down 1 and 1/2%.
>> Vessels are starting to go through. The
MOU says that we're going to have
waivers on Iranian exports. This is all
healthy to get more oil barrels to the
market right now, especially in places
[music] that have been dealing with
demand destruction. A viewer writes in
and says, "Is it plausible that promised
lower oil prices from the MOU with
retail sales and employment already
healthy will be net stimulative, aka
interest rates stay high?" [music]
>> Well, this to me is going to be the key
question. How much How much has the
inflationary push come truly from oil
prices versus myriad other areas? We're
talking about retail sales that have
been doing pretty well outside of gas
and automobiles. We're talking about
people buying blue and orange. We're
talking about people buying mugs. We're
talking about people who are not going
to the parade somehow even though
they've come out and worn every single
part of their outfit that's orange and
blue.
>> The the Knicks are I and and I'll and
I'll stop doing this because again, like
I said, I can't have people thinking I'm
a Mets fan once the Knicks excitement
gets over. Definitely not. And also, did
you see yesterday just quickly Jalen
Brunson, Josh Hart throw out the first
pitch at Yankee Stadium. That's where
they chose That's where they chose to
go. But,
World Cup, Knicks, seriously, all of
this is very stimulative to the [music]
US economy regardless of potential
inflation from gas prices.
>> And potential inflation from ticket
prices. 2 hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Vanya
Quinn. Vanya. Well, Lisa, it might be an
up market, but we'll start with a down
stock and that is Accenture. You know,
it did beat in terms of [music] profit,
but it cut its revenue guidance and it
continues on this acquisition spree. The
latest three more companies in the
cybersecurity space. Obviously, its core
business is getting dinged from AI
concerns. Investors dinging it as well.
And it's continuing [music] to try to
pivot, but again, today with that
revenue guidance cut and the news that
[music] three more acquisitions are
going on the books, this stock is down
by 12-13% in the premarket. Let's take a
look at Intel, though. That is having a
very different day and we'll look at
that in a moment. First, we look at the
memory chip makers. Tim Cook gave an
interview to the Wall Street Journal in
which he said, "Look, we're going to
have to finally put up prices on Apple
products." Now, he didn't kind of say
when, which products, or by how much,
but he basically said the reason was
memory chips
>> [music]
>> and storage are costing Apple a lot more
money and it's unsustainable. He has to
pass some on to consumers. Well, that's
good for margins, right? It means that
there's pricing power for these memory
chip makers [music] and those stocks are
benefiting today, particularly Marvell
Technology, which had been down a little
more than the others.
And finally, let's look at Intel because
it's again an Apple story. The president
tweeting out that Intel was going to get
into partnership with Apple on domestic
chip [music] production, a little bit
like the Nvidia Elon Musk Terafab
partnership. And that has Intel stock
rising. Of course, Li Butan has been
trying to find clients. If Apple were to
be a a client, a large client, it would
bring in a lot more and that's [music]
definitely positive for a stock that's
already risen fourfold since the US took
an investment last August.
>> Thank you so much, Vanya. On our radar
this morning, the US and Iran signing an
interim deal to end the war and reopen
the Strait of Hormuz. Iran's president
publishing the text of the agreement on
X calling the deal historic. The Federal
Reserve holding rate steady chair Kevin
Warsh of owing to curb inflation and
receiving support from President Donald
Trump.
>> It's all right. Whatever.
>> And it looks like they might even raise
them later this year. It's not clear. Do
you have any comments?
>> It could happen. I mean, I I it's hard
to believe.
It just keeps a country down, you know,
so it's so
unusual.
But we have a very good guy over there
now, so I'm guided by what he wants to
>> Whatever whether he raises rates or
doesn't. Fed chair Warsh avoiding giving
any signal on his preferred rate path,
but new projections showing many
officials expect to raise rates at least
once this year. And on the inflation
story, this to me really stood out.
Apple planning to raise prices to offset
the surging cost of memory and storage
chips. Outgoing CEO Tim Cook telling the
Wall Street Journal quote, "Price
increases are unavoidable." Cook
declined to offer further
details or timing or scale. But again,
this pressure is not just oil prices.
>> Right. And how do you maintain a profit
margin if you're one of these companies
if you're seeing such sky-high prices
when it comes to memory and storage
chips? On top of this interview given to
the Wall Street Journal, the Wall Street
Journal then turned around and said,
"Well, how much could the iPhone 18 Pro
cost?" Cuz everyone's thinking that's
probably where there's going to be this
increase in prices. $1,299.
$1,300 basically for a brand new iPhone
when that comes out. That's a lot of
money.
>> This though also speaks to what we're
talking about with the build-out of
technology and how that's going to cause
inflation that does come into consumer
goods in other ways.
>> Can't escape it.
>> You can't escape it. I mean, iPhone is
something that increasingly is a staple
whether you like it or whether you
don't. And so this is one pathway to see
some of the build-out and the investment
come into other inflationary inputs. Can
people take some of what they're saving
on gasoline prices and put it into their
new iPhone? Maybe, but then it goes to
the point of rates staying high
regardless of oil prices coming in.
>> And it's not just iPhones. It's going to
be the PCs and the MacBooks as well. And
Morgan Stanley estimates a 15% bump for
this across the year in the US when it
comes to not just the iPhone, but the
other products. That's a lot of money
and yes, speaks to why Kevin Warsh is
talking about price stability and not
just focusing on
>> energy prices. You know, there's a task
force for that. Let's turn back to the
Fed. Investors taking in the Central
Bank's hawkish hold and pricing in a
hike by October. Anastasia Amoroso of
Partners Group writing, "We wouldn't be
surprised if expectations for the number
of hikes and cuts flip many times
between now and the fall. A big pencil
with a big eraser." Anastasia joins us
now. Anastasia, great to see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. What was your takeaway
from yesterday?
>> Oh, look, the market's takeaway was that
this is clearly a hawkish message. I
don't actually think so. And the reason
for that is of all the task forces are
designed to buy a whole lot of time. And
you know, look, there there was sort of
a dismissal of the dots. You know, he
specifically talked about them being
really penciled in based on the current
information with a big eraser. And
there's this allusion to the fact that a
lot can change in the next 6 weeks. So,
I think it is a premature conclusion
that we actually have a hawkish bias.
You know, the other things that really
stood out to me during the press
conference,
and one of them is a conversation about
alternative data or the real-time,
real-world, contemporaneous data. I
think that is really, really important.
And I'll give you one example. If you
look at the shelter inflation today in
the CPI, uh, you know, reports, then
you'll see 3% roughly year-over-year
change in shelter inflation. When you
look at Zillow, CoStar, and others'
real-time data sources, you actually are
seeing between -1% and maybe +1%. So, so
a very different picture. So, the
question is what else might we be
overstating by relying in some of the
backwards looking surveys. And then the
last point kind of to make on that is
you know, Lisa, you talked about the
price of semiconductors. And one thing
that Kevin War said is
look, we can't control if I'm in a
grocery store, I can't control the price
of milk or eggs or oil and perhaps
semiconductors. So maybe just maybe the
committee is likely look through some of
those one-off increases that they can't
control, but what they can control is
the secondary impact and that's most
likely looking at services and wage
inflation.
>> I hear you. The one caveat being in
terms of the hawkish tilt is the narrow
focus on inflation. That the Fed has not
achieved its 2% target for 5 years and
so this has to change. This is something
they can control and they need to lean
into and they didn't even mention the
dual mandate of the employment market.
Why is that not unabashedly hawkish?
>> Well, let's think about what drove
inflation over the last year. It is a
set of one-off factors. It was the
tariff increases and the core goods
increases as a result of that. You know,
then is the energy prices that also
increased and then is some component of
the AI tech trade. But when you project
that out, if you model that out through
the back half of the year into 2027,
some of those one-off factors are likely
set to roll over. Core goods inflation
for example, if you look at core goods
the last CPI report that we got,
month-over-month change was negative.
That was the first time we saw that in
about a year or or longer. So that's
already sort of a positive
forward-looking sign. You know, then you
look at energy. You know, we were
looking at $120 barrel barrel of crude
oil. Today the forward strip is $75. It
is a vastly different picture. So I
think that's going to trend down and
maybe the maybe the stickier component
is going to be the semiconductors and
software, but if you take all of those
one-off factors in aggregate, that's
about 1% that has been added to core
inflation because of those things. But
if they're going to diminish, the
significance is going to diminish into
the back half of the year, Um
maybe that doesn't actually cause for
call for rate hikes. I will say though,
Lisa, 3 and 1/2% range is probably where
we're going to be for some time.
>> Do you think he was just managing
inflation expectations?
>> Yes. Yes, I mean, if you were an
incoming Fed chair and, you know, you
want to make a very strong statement and
I think it was the exact right statement
to make, the commitment to the inflation
mandate and as a result, Lisa, to your
point, you have seen that yield curve
flattening and that's kind of
constructive because that manages
the 10-year part of the curve as well.
Now, for us, for example, as private
markets investors, while short-term
rates are important because you do have
some floating rate exposure, let's say,
in private credit or for the portfolio
companies, if you think about
infrastructure assets,
if you think about data centers, if you
think about real estate, a lot of the
valuations of those and the loans that
may they may be undertaking are tied to
the 5-year part of the curve. So, I see
that actually net net is a positive
development.
>> Do you think also he had to come out and
say this because of the fact he's
entering a Fed, he was an inflation hawk
in the past, he said on in his hearing,
"Inflation is a choice." Was he kind of
almost trolling his predecessor, who for
5 years they haven't hit their target?
>> Well, I mean, maybe it came across that
way.
You know, we can't be the judge of what
he really meant by that, but I think as
an incoming Fed chair, he was there to
reestablish the mandate and, you know,
to focus the on the battle at hand,
right, which is still inflation. If you
look at the labor market, you know, the
the positive thing there is the labor
market has actually been reaccelerating
and we printed something like 166,000
jobs on average over the last 3 months
and that's the best level that we've
seen since 2024. So, there's not an
emergency state in the labor market,
while inflation, the core PC is still
running at 3.3%, that sounds a lot more
urgent, so I understand the focus on
that.
>> to pick up on the point about private
markets and that being more hawkish in
the near term leads to more value on the
long end with the idea that you could
see yields come in.
Does this actually encourage you to take
more risk when it comes to housing
sensitive or building sensitive types of
sectors?
>> I I think in parts, absolutely. I'll
give you one example, which is the data
center business. When you think about
how you price a data center, you price
it off your operating income and then
you you discount that by the cap rate.
And the cap rate is a function, of
course, of what the base rate of what
the rates are in that part of the curve.
And to the extent that lower rates
across the curve can translate into
lower cap rates, all things equal, they
mechanically lift the valuation of
things like data centers, for example.
So, that's certainly supportive. If you
think about real estate and parts of and
infrastructure, there's
there's leverage that's undertaken to
build a data center or to, you know, to
to build a commercial building. So, to
the extent that the leverage costs come
down in that part of the curve, that's
also supportive as well. So, I would say
yes, constructive there. You know, when
you look at some of the private equity
businesses and
the you know, the leveraged buyouts,
they may use more short-term floating or
floating rate debt, I should say, which
is tied to the short-term rate. And you
know, certainly it's not great news that
we're not going to see as many rate cuts
there, but I will say, Lisa, in for our
portfolio companies and in general, the
coverage ratios have improved
significantly versus what they were in
2022. So, the cash flows have improved
as well. So, it's actually most
meaningful for the private equity
companies is that is the EBITDA growing
or the is the profitability growing? And
for us, we do see that acceleration in
EBITDA growth from last year into this
year and into the following year. So,
I'd say that sort of trumps some of the
rate considerations.
>> Anastasia Amoroso, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Anastasia
Amoroso of a Group, as we look at the
hawkish tilt having maybe dovish
consequences in the long end of the
yield curve. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Isabelle. [music] Isabelle.
>> Hi Lisa. Federal Reserve Chair Kevin
Warsh announced five independent task
forces. During his first press
conference, Warsh said the groups will
be responsible for fundamentally
rethinking key elements of Central Bank
operations and monetary policy.
And Apple is preparing to release the
second generation of the iPhone Air. The
new model added a second rear camera for
ultra-wide angle photography and
improved battery life. The model is
expected to release
>> [music]
>> in spring of next year.
And gas prices dipping below $4 a gallon
for the first time since March.
According to AAA, the national average
for regular unleaded is now $3.99.
Prices are still well above where they
stood before the war [music] and aren't
expected to return to those levels until
next year. That's your Bloomberg Brief.
>> Lisa. [music]
>> Thank you so much, Isabelle. Up next,
reform in the Federal Reserve.
>> I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas. That'll be taken up by the
task force. We've got a task force for
that. I've been on a task force or two
in my life. It's one of the things we
have a task force to do.
>> Former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George George joins us next to answer
the question, is she on the task force?
From New York, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Can you be not dovish, but send rates
lower with being hawkish? Right now,
even though we had a real shift in tone
from the Federal Reserve, you are seeing
risk on continue with [music] the long
end of the yield curve coming in this
morning. Substantive percent gain on the
S&P. 10-year yields lower by three basis
[music] points. Dollar stronger, crude
lower as that MOU gets signed between
the US and Iran. Where does the Fed fit
into this? Under surveillance this
morning were forming the Federal
Reserve.
>> I'm appointing a task force in each of
five areas. You'll hear quite a bit more
about these task forces. That'll be
taken up by the task force. We've got a
task force for that. The good news for
you is we have a task force for that. We
have a task force on that, too. I've
been on a task force or two in my life.
It's one of the things we have a task
force to do.
>> Here's the latest [music] Fed chair,
Kevin Warsh, appointing, guess what? New
task forces. Saying professionals inside
and outside of economics will review
five areas central to monetary policy.
Former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George writing, "Uncertainty will
heighten as to how the outcome of these
reviews might refocus the FOMC
frameworks and processes." Esther joins
us now. Great to see you. Thank you for
being with us, Esther. Let's just start
off. Were you asked to be on any of
these task forces?
>> Well, there's plenty of opportunity with
five of them, and I will stand by
waiting for the call.
>> Were you surprised by anything out of
yesterday's press conference?
>> So, I don't know that I would call it a
surprise, uh, Lisa, but I do think, uh,
what we were waiting to hear and what a
new Fed chairman would be expected to do
is sort of establish the tone. And the
tone, I think, came through loud and
clear with the emphasis on price
stability. And of course, the other
thing people were waiting for is how
exactly will the changes
that Kevin Warsh foreshadowed play out.
And of course, we saw that again in his
explaining the task forces and what they
would be assigned to do.
>> There seemed to be a de-emphasis on the
labor market. This idea that you can
have a dual mandate and that mandate can
come into conflict. He answered and
said, "Really, he doesn't see it that
way, and it's not really the right way,
given the fact that if you have price
stability, that fosters a robust economy
that can allow full employment." What
was your take of the fact that he really
deemphasized one side of the mandate?
>> Well, I think it has been highly
emphasized in the past, for sure, and
that has not always been the case in the
history of the Federal Reserve, even
with that dual mandate. The research,
too, I think would support essentially
what he's saying, which is if you
achieve price stability over the long
run, it really sets the conditions for a
healthy labor market. So, certainly a
contrast, I think, to what uh some of
the messaging has been even over the
past year. But I don't expect that
either undermines the mandate nor the
focus that this committee has to have,
which, as you noted, squarely on the
inflation issue that they've been
wrestling with for a number of years.
>> It feels like Kevin Warsh is a
minimalist when it comes to facts only
in the statement, not a lot of forward
guidance. In that sense, do you think
that is clearer communication, or do you
think it creates more uncertainty for
financial markets?
>> Well, you're right. I think it can have
uh
it can have more effects, cuz the point
is not the number of words that you're
using. It is really the clarity with
which you're expressing what you're
trying to communicate, and that, of
course, will be the challenge, I think,
going forward. One could argue there's
been a lot of communication, and maybe
not the right amount of clarity.
And I think if you move to the other end
of that spectrum, which is let's shorten
it up, let's be more concise, also
leaves a lot of room for
misinterpretation, too. So, again, I
think this focus on communication is a
good one. I think it's one the FOMC has
looked at over a a of years trying to
figure out where do you get the bang for
your buck in the communications you're
trying to deliver. And again, he has a
task force for that, so we'll see where
they come out on that.
>> Will other members of the committee line
up behind him and when they give
speeches refrain from talking about
forward guidance?
>> Well, we'll have to see and I think
we'll get a chance next week. There'll
be some of the the FOMC participants
will be out speaking. Um remember when
when Fed presidents, which I can speak
to most directly, go out, they are out
there in their regions really trying to
explain policy to people.
I think this committee is always uh
operating with a degree of deference to
the chairman. I think they're willing to
let uh the direction be led here, but
they will have to speak about their
views as they go out and again, their
view uh I think if we can look back to
the past meeting, the past year and how
they've communicated and have clues
about how they're thinking about the
policy path.
>> Our resident uh Fed expert wrote in to
let us know of your prominent position
for the World Cup Committee in Kansas
City. And this does play into inflation.
There's a task force for the World Cup
Committee. I can say that I saw some of
the Argentinian fans lining up to get on
a plane to go to Kansas City all decked
out in blue and white, incredibly
excited. I'm sure you're incredibly
excited and have great seats to the
game. I'm wondering from your
perspective,
how do you see it as representative of
the strength in the consumer? I mean,
how much is this increasingly economic
story as well as one of incredible
fandom for the soccer sport?
>> Well, we're excited here in Kansas City
about our connection to the World Cup
and and the Argentinians, the Algerian
game was an exciting one for sure.
I think Lisa, your question
[clears throat] really speaks to how is
the consumer doing uh today and we do
see consumer spending strong, retail
sales are moving and I will tell you the
seats were full
at the stadium where I watched that
game. So there is spending going on in
the economy today which of course is why
the FOMC has to be particularly
attentive to its mandate around price
stability that they they have to follow
through. Again, I think as we heard
yesterday on that mandate.
>> Do you think it would be advisable for
them to hike rates later this year?
>> Well, I think there's a good argument to
be made for that and of course I think
what we heard yesterday is we're not
going to prognosticate about that but
we're going to watch the data carefully
which of course is what the committee
has to do and has done for some time.
But when you look at the persistence of
inflation notwithstanding that we see
some good news coming out of the oil
markets there has been an underlying
issue with inflation being sticky and so
looking at whether the current interest
rate is going to be sufficient to bring
that back to target I think is a real
question and one they're going to have
to tackle.
>> Former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George, thank you so much and good luck
throughout the World Cup given the fact
that I really did see an incredible rush
of people heading over to Kansas City.
>> cuz you get a chance to see Messi,
right? Didn't he have a hat trick in
that game? So pretty incredible and
probably worth buying the tickets for,
right? Because some of these games a lot
of people view are just once in a
lifetime so you're going to pay up.
>> All I can say is that the Mets are
single-handedly trying to disinflate
some of the ticket prices as a result of
their of their result. So you know, it's
not it's not even across the board, some
pockets of strength.
>> But New York's getting evened out with
the Yankee ticket pricing and obviously
I mean the Knicks tickets were insane.
Before I decided to go to game five, I
checked game six ticket prices. Get in
price, worst seat in this in the in the
arena in MSG, $11,000.
>> Just a programming note, this is the
last day that Anne Marie is allowed to
talk about the fact that she did attend
game five of the next. Coming up next
hour is Scott Chronert of Citigroup,
Charles Schwab of a CEO
Rick Worster, Claudia Sahm of New
Century Advisors, and Jessica Levitt
of Marquette Associates. So we see risk
on reassert itself with a [music] deal
signed between the US and Iran a deal a
day early from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> The committee decided to maintain the
target range for the Fed funds rate in
support of the Fed's dual mandate.
>> This was a very deliberate and patient
approach and we'll see through the path
of incoming data how this plays out.
>> It's hard not to interpret that as a
little bit more hawkish than otherwise
[music] people might have expected.
>> Half of the committee is expecting rate
hikes this year. We were thinking
[music] two, maybe three to be
decorative. We didn't think half the
committee.
>> That's one of the challenges the Fed
faces is they've [music] got to manage
to the economic aggregates when the
devil is in the details.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance on a Thursday that feels
like a Friday. It's tug-of-war Thursday
with two competing factors buffeting
markets. On one side stocks rising on
the prospect of a signed deal between
the US and Iran. On the other a bold new
Fed chair Kevin Warsh putting a hawkish
stamp on the world's most important
central bank locking in market
expectations for a rate hike as soon as
October with a really hawkish projection
from the committee. For the moment
traders taking more signal from falling
oil prices and potential rate hikes and
almost shrugging off the jobless claims
that we get in 30 minutes time.
>> Because the Fed has told us they are
focused on price stability. And what we
see right now in financial markets, and
also bleeding through the real economy,
oil prices are lower. Gasoline is now
under $4 a gallon. [music] This is what
the this White House wanted to see ahead
of the midterm elections. I love what
Norm Roule talked to us [music] about
when it comes to this deal. The reported
US-Iran deal is best understood as a
high-value pause in the current military
phase of the conflict, [music] not a
durable strategic settlement. We're
seeing all this good news. It's for 60
days. What happens next?
>> At the same time, you are seeing oil
prices come down, and it's not just on
the front end of the contracts. It's
also on the longer end, when you take a
look at the December contracts. It's
some of the lowest levels that we've
seen [music] since early March.
Does the Fed have an easier time and do
central banks around the world, given
that there is this reprieve in oil
prices? [music]
Maybe, but we were talking about last
last hour how Apple is going to be
raising uh prices as a result of the
memory [music] component. So, how far
base is this inflation? How much can the
US labor market truly support the
ongoing spending?
>> And I love what Michael Purvis just
wrote in. Is worse the hawk who keeps
rates lower? He's coming in very
hawkish. He's setting a new tone.
[music] He's not putting a dot on the
plot. He's issuing
less words in the statement. He is
certainly setting a new tone, but how
much is that just to manage inflation
expectations so it doesn't get out of
control, and potentially at some point
be able to deliver on what this White
House wants to see, which is an interest
rate reduction?
Time will tell.
>> Whatever. That's the uh response from
President Trump to
>> me a little bit. Uh a little bit to take
the pressure off. Right now, taking the
pressure off in equities and giving it
some [music] juice, in particular with
the tech trade, seeing a rally across
the board, uh led by the Nasdaq. 7/8%
[music] gain in S&P futures. You're
seeing yields lower on the long end. Are
you potentially leading to uh easier
financial conditions at the long end by
being hawkish in the near term? 4.46%
on [music] that denomination and crude
lower by about 2% on WTI at $75.30.
[music]
Coming up this hour, Scott Chronert of
Citigroup with tech leading stocks
higher, Charles Schwab CEO Rick Wurster
as [music] SpaceX shares pull back after
historic retail demand. And Claudia Sahm
of New Century Advisors as Fed Chair
Kevin Warsh kicks off a new era for
policy. We begin this hour with stocks
bouncing back and oil falling as markets
digest a hawkish Fed with a peace deal
in Iran. Scott Chronert of Citigroup
writing, "The City House view remains
for three cuts starting in September.
Our S&P 500 8100 year-end target is not
predicated on lower Fed funds. That
said, tightening from here would
certainly put some pressure on our
views." Scott joins us now for more.
Scott, I just want to welcome you and
get your take on what we heard yesterday
to see if you think that's enough to
shift your likelihood of a potential
rate hike a significantly higher.
>> Hi Lisa, good morning. Well, I I'd say,
you know, our economist view is that
there's still a likelihood for Fed cuts
later in the year. Overnight, they
pushed their expectations out to a first
cut in October from the previous
September. So, now I think we're
officially looking for two cuts between
now and the end of the year. So, you
know, we incorporate that into our US
equity views in a number of ways, but
I'd say first and foremost, it it plays
to how we think about the broadening
dynamic within US equities. Like
heretofore, we've been very very adamant
of the view that we're actually having
to make two market calls here. One on
the AI-related cohort that is now
approaching being 50% of index earnings,
the other on everything else, which is
where your more traditional macro
issues come into play. So, we'll
navigate this. I think what we got out
of Warsh in hindsight was a not a
surprise given his inflation-hawkish
background and and perspective. And also
just we need to allow as as we've talked
about it seems like several months ago
that as you got into new fair Fed chair
mode, you have to prepare for some
volatility around the the change in the
the language and the commentary.
>> Did oil steal Kevin Warsh's thunder on
some level given the fact that the
decline in oil prices gave potential
stimulus in its own right to the
consumer facing sector to baby support
some of that broadening out?
>> You know, I think you highlighted
earlier we've been all in on the focus
on the on the futures curve for crude
and there you're seeing a fairly
dramatic, you know, downward sloping
pattern unfolding here as we've gone
into this latest Iran negotiation. So I
think we all, you know, are quizzical on
will it persist. The oil markets are
telling you that they expect it will
persist and then the question becomes
one of well, were the the the Fed
members in a position to to adequately
address the potential impact of this now
falling oil price. Our suspicion is that
as we get further into the fall months,
you'll see this balance between
signs of inflation coming in, some
nagging labor concerns creep in,
probably keeps the Fed on pause for now.
Certainly
you know, to our team's view until we
get a little bit further into the fall
months.
>> But Scott, given the fact that the
Federal Reserve chair Kevin Warsh
continuously talked about price
stability, he was talking more than just
the rise in energy prices. Isn't he
seeing inflation elsewhere?
>> Well, I think this is one of the issues
when you get into the details on a lot
of the inflation data is like, okay,
what's the force what's the force
driving the data this month? And and
sometimes those forces can be fairly
narrow as opposed to how you think about
it in a more classically broad-based
approach. So I I think we just have to
be aware that, you know, as we as we've
said earlier that that that Mr. Warsh's
views coming in kind of started out with
an hawkish
inflation bias. I would say that I
think, you know, identifying that 2%
target I thought was pretty telling in
terms of setting the tone for this. He's
making it clear. He's not going to let
this inflation issue get away with him
from him, but I I I do think that
there's still a lot of wood to chop here
in terms of how the Fed's going to go
through their process, how they're going
to evaluate all the puts and takes, and
we'll see. I I know the markets are are
leaning incrementally hawkish in terms
of timing for next Fed rate hike.
And we'll have to navigate that as a
source of volatility. For now, for now,
not changing our US equity views, which
are still net constructive for as we
enter the second half.
>> I love your take as well, just from your
position in terms of an equity
strategist. Does it matter to you? Were
you interested in knowing more about
these task force, or you just read them
as this is a Federal Reserve chair who's
buying some time?
>> Well, I it, you know, I'm
not an economist by trade, but we will
follow this pretty closely, obviously.
And and I think the task force makes a
lot of sense, and I think, you know,
taking a fresh look at the Fed process
was something that we expected from Mr.
Warsh all along. And I think that's
terrific. I think one of the issues
that, you know, we've been kind of, you
know, dealing with over the past several
years is is a Fed that seems so data
dependent that sometimes it puts itself
behind the curve in terms of reacting
reacting to events as they unfold.
And sometimes that can be to the
detriment of both economic conditions in
many cases, US equity fundamentals. So,
again, I welcome the refresh. We'll see
where this takes us. I think it just
probably says that, hey, again, just be
prepared that the Fed messaging is going
to be a little bit different than it's
been as we go into the next couple of
meetings from here.
>> Got I love how you framed the different
market calls. The idea of the broadening
out trade in the economy versus the AI
trade, which seems somewhat independent
of everything. Given what we've seen
from SpaceX, given what we've seen in
terms of the attention being paid to the
mythos and fable iterations of
Anthropic, given how central the AI
leaders are to the entire G7, do you
only see this particular trade
continuing to gain or are you starting
to see some cracks?
>> Well, I think we know that the supply
that's coming or and is expected to come
via issuance
is an early sign that we have to pay
attention, okay? And this is something
that we've called out. A lot of this is
a double-edged sword. You want the
funding to support the investment. On
the other hand, the funding leads to
share price dilution and there are other
nagging issues that come with that. So,
we know that also, and this has been
part of our recent view to take our S&P
target up for this year to now 8,100, is
that what this is driving is a let's
call it an AI capex supercycle that, you
know, we think we're still in the middle
innings of. So, so essentially the setup
here is is for an expectation that we
see fairly consistent beats and raises
out of that part of the market,
certainly in Qs 2, 3, and probably 4,
and we'll have a fairly positive view of
going into '27. Beyond that, it gets a
little bit more murky, I would say. And
so, I think we have to look at some of
the earnings tailwinds that we're
getting here out of the AI play as here
for now, part of this capex supercycle,
but we have to be wary that it's not
going to last forever. On the flip side,
the broadening call has always been
about getting back to where we started
the year, which was for a sort of soft
landing conditions with expectations for
somewhat easier Fed that allows other
parts of the market to to reengage. We
haven't seen that in their fundamental
follow-through thus far into the
reporting
cycle with Q1 results not showing much
change in the forward earnings picture
for that other half of the of the index.
So, you know, we've got a couple of
hands that we're playing here. We think
that the the best opportunity for a
market, you know, hitting persistent new
highs is going to come and be a
combination of those two forces at work.
>> Scott Chronert of Citigroup, thank you
so much for taking the time this morning
as we parse through these dueling
factors. I love that. These different
markets that seem completely divorced
from one another. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg Brief with Isabelle
Lee. Isabelle.
>> Hi Lisa. Iran's president publishing the
text of the interim deal between Tehran
and the US on X. Some of the details
include traffic of commercial vessels
through the Strait of Hormuz to start
immediately with no charge for 60 days,
as well as the US fully ending its naval
blockade in 30 days. And the BOE holding
interest rates steady at 3.75%. [music]
The central bank saying the recent drop
in oil prices is quote encouraging to
policy makers voting for an immediate
quarter point hike due to concerns over
persistent inflation. And a historic day
in New York, the Knicks getting their
first ever ticker tape parade. The
parade through the Canyon of Heroes is
kicking off at 10:00 a.m. Eastern and is
[music] expected to draw millions of
fans. Some fans paying as much as $950
for professional line sitters to secure
a front row view. That's quite a price.
That's [music] your Bloomberg Brief.
Lisa.
>> Thank you so much. A word just to all of
the bosses out there. If your employees
are a little bit late, they might be
stuck in the subway behind a lot of
different uniforms.
>> How many people are also just [music]
calling in sick? This is it feels like
once-in-a-lifetime Yeah.
>> I I see I hear a little bit of raspiness
there. I think that
>> mean I'm on TV, so obviously I'm not
there. But also, can you imagine paying
$950 for a professional seat holder?
That's not a bad gig.
>> Oh my god. Is that Are you thinking of
Bloomberg Brief?
>> weekends.
>> All right. Well, this is a
once-in-a-lifetime thing. And maybe
maybe Emery is rethinking her career
choices. Up next, the morning calls.
Plus, Charles Schwab CEO Rick Wuester on
the blockbuster run for retail investors
following the SpaceX [music] debut.
That's kind of wage inflation, right? I
mean, that would really cause some
increase in spending [music] capacity.
>> Maybe that's where John is today.
>> Ooh, I highly, highly doubt that. That's
That conversation is not coming up next.
Rick Wurster is. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> With any model, with any technology,
there's going to be a risk of harm.
Executives, companies are realizing they
have to prepare both for the benefits of
AI, and also making sure things like
their cybersecurity are up-to-date.
Models like this can improve
cybersecurity and identify [music]
potential attacks that can actually
allow companies to respond to those
quickly, rather than having those
vulnerabilities exploited.
>> That was Jennifer Huddleston of the Cato
Institute on potentially finding some of
those holes. Of course, it is a timing
mismatch. How long does it take to patch
up some of these holes as you find those
vulnerabilities? Right now, people
looking through some of all of the
concerns, some, all,
>> [music]
>> seeing some gains in risk assets. 7.2%
gain on S&P futures. Yields lower on the
long end as people take a look at a
potentially more hawkish Federal Reserve
raising rates in the near term to lower
inflation and benchmark rates in the
shorter and in the longer term. And
crude prices really in the front seat
here, down 2.4%
as we look to a deal between the US and
Iran. Time now for the morning calls.
First up, Wedbush more than doubling its
price target on Micron to $1,300, saying
estimates for revenue and EPS have
increased substantially. Those shares
surging 4 and 1/2% though some of this
is also some sort of rebound from some
of the sell-off that we've seen in the
past couple of weeks. Next up, Key Bank
raising its price target on Marvell to
$385 from $280. The analyst saying
networking should increasingly be a
focus for investors. And finally,
>> [music]
>> already initiating coverage on SpaceX
with a buy rating and a street high $401
price target saying the company is
breaking down hard engineering
challenges into stepwise tasks [music]
as it builds scale into space. SpaceX
seeing historic appetite from retail
investors drawing over 300 and 70
million dollars in demand since Friday.
Charles Schwab was one of the firms that
bought that brought the listing to Main
Street. Joining us now, I'm so pleased
to say is the Schwab president and chief
executive officer Rick Wurster. Rick,
great to see you. Thank you for being
with us. I want to start just with how
you see the retail investors role in
this particular IPO and how it
highlights in some ways a changed
market.
>> Well, it's a breakthrough event, I
think, for the retail investor who was
allocated roughly 20% deal, which is
triple a typical IPO. So, it's great to
see retail having a meaningful seat at
the table. It created tremendous
engagement with our clients and and I
broadly with retail clients. Demand was
off the charts and and that demand
continues. We've seen in the 3 days
following the IPO nearly 7 billion
dollars of additional orders come from
our clients alone. So, lots of interest,
a great breakthrough for the retail
client having a seat at the table was
great to see.
>> There's a little bit of concern in some
corners, albeit with skepticism because
you never want to bet against an entire
crowd of people who are going in one
direction. But, Rick, there does seem
like it's more kind of in vibes and
support of the ideas of things rather
than traditional valuations. Does that
concern you? Or does that frankly give
you faith in the crowds, the wisdom of
crowds, rather than Wall Street
analysis?
>> Yeah, it's tough to know with foresight
what the returns will be. But, I think
what's is so exciting about the market
is the level of innovation that you're
seeing. And the retail investor sees
that every day in their life and they
want to be a part of it. And and so
you're seeing tremendous interest in AI
related names and the space names. I I
think it comes from the retail investor
being able to touch and feel the level
of innovation in our in our economy. And
I think clearly they're holding names
that are doing stocks that are doing
well with really strong fundamentals.
Exactly what the returns will be only
time will tell.
>> This was like a Super Bowl moment for
financial markets and we learned that
there are war rooms you set up, various
ones, and you increased your team. Can
you just give us some color? Where were
you during all of this? What was the
vibes like in these war rooms that you
set up?
>> It was pretty amazing event in that it
was one of the top five most active days
for our clients in the 50-year plus
history of the firm. And if you think
about all the market events we've had
over those 50 years, for the IPO to
crack the top five is pretty
unbelievable. We had 140,000 clients
call in live. We had
lots of digital engagement. It was
impressive to see and our teams were
fully staffed, ready, and able to handle
our clients' needs that day. It was
wonderful to see the teamwork and the
effort that went into making this a
success on our side.
>> How do you think this is going to
establish potentially what's next when
it comes to other mega IPOs like
Anthropic and Open AI?
>> I I hopefully it establishes retail
having a really strong presence at the
table. I think it's wonderful the for
the retail investor to be able to
participate in something like this. So I
hope this IPO establishes that. I think
it also establishes an incredible level
of interest among our client base
for new and innovative technologies and
and being able to participate them. We
we uh recently closed a deal with Forge,
which allows our clients to invest in
pre-IPO companies. And so, I think that
the
the interest around these new ideas and
and emerging companies is quite high and
will only continue.
>> Charles Rick, the point that you just
made is actually really important given
the fact that people know that
increasingly the value is being created
before the IPO when companies are still
private. Do you think that some of these
IPOs will expedite the efforts to get
access to retail investors into private
markets through a whole host of
different ways?
>> I do think it will expedite it because
people will have interest in getting in
earlier because the these companies are
waiting far longer to go public. And so,
there's a lot of value being created
while they're private and people want
in. I know on the Forge platform
um these companies were brought with
much lower valuation. SpaceX in
particular, I think first came to the
Forge platform when it was roughly 60
billion in value. And so, those
investors who were able to participate
early at a $60 billion valuation are
seeing it now well over $2 trillion and
are enjoying the very significant
returns that they had. And I think more
and more people are getting to see and
experience these companies that are
private. They're benefiting from a lot
of their technology and they want a way
to access the returns that are that are
going to come from uh the innovation
that they're driving. So, I do think it
will create more interest in private
companies. And and we want to
participate in that.
>> Rick, what's the demographic of some of
the retail investors who have been most
interested in some of these IPOs? And I
ask that because it seems like there are
some generational divides that have
emerged in terms of who is more actively
trading some of the zero-day uh dated
options and and other instruments versus
the 60/40 crowd that grew up in another
era.
>> Yeah, interesting. We saw we saw demand
for this IPO across the demographic from
young investors to our uh to our older
investors. So, really high demand across
the board.
>> Are you seeing your retail investors
having to move money out of certain
positions so they can get ahead of
something exciting like the SpaceX IPO?
>> A couple things. We saw in May more new
money being put to work. So, people
taking money from cash, getting getting
it invested. We also did see some
rotation and part of what drove the high
levels of activity around the SpaceX IPO
were clients who were repositioning
their portfolio to free up money to to
invest in SpaceX. So, I think it's a
little bit combination of both.
>> When you look at some of the other
brokerage that are involved, Fidelity,
Robinhood, E*TRADE, why do you think
investors should come to you? I know a
lot of young investors are very excited
about Robinhood and also how some of
their software operates.
Why for you given the fact that this is
going to be a massive summer for IPOs?
>> Yeah, I think Schwab is the place to be
because we've got what we think is the
world's greatest trading platform and
thinkorswim. We've got a research and
education platform that is built with
the client first putting information and
analysis in their hands to make informed
decisions.
And we have the support and service that
can't be matched. You know, we had a
hundred took a hundred forty thousand
client calls
all from a tell me what an IPO is to how
do I actually purchase the IPO and how
do how do I get involved? So, I think at
Schwab you get full end-to-end service
from a person that can help you, a great
digital experience, a leading trading
platform, and the research and insights
that are are going to put your interests
at the forefront. So, that's why if you
look at our trading activity, we we
handle the most daily average trades I
think by double the next largest broker.
So, we do think we are the premier
destination for trading in our in our
country.
>> Just real question real quick, Rick. I'm
wondering if the Fed is more hawkish and
does raise rates, do you think that
that's going to limit some of the
profitability due to the contracting
yield curve?
>> For the company or for for for the
For the company, I we're well positioned
and if rates rise, that's generally
beneficial to our company. But we're an
all-weather business model and we've got
three major sources of revenue, trading
activity, asset management and fee-based
revenue and then
revenue that comes from net interest
margin. So we have a diversified
business model, can handle we think a
lot of different environments, but in
general with the the environment that
we're seeing around rates, that only
provides a tailwind for our business.
>> Rick Wurstern, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Charles
Schwab CEO after the IPO that broke
records and has rallied more than 40%
since the first day of trading even with
a bit of a pullback yesterday.
>> And excitement for retail investors in
something like SpaceX. Are we going to
see that same sort of allocation
excitement when it comes to Anthropic,
when it comes to Open AI when they hit
the market this summer and places like
Charles Schwab are excited and hopeful
for for a for a second coming almost of
another IPO.
>> Yeah, incredible competition to get a
slice of this deal in any which way. We
are just about 5 minutes away from
initial jobs claims. Remember the jobs
market? That's hard to sort of think
about given how much inflation was
emphasized yesterday. Do we get an
increase similar to what we saw at the
previous read? Plus Claudia Sahm of New
Century Advisors on the new era of
communication at the Fed. There is a
task force for all sorts of things. If
you have been selected for the task
force, please call in. From New York,
this is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> The rally extends [music] this morning
with oil prices falling across the board
giving some heat in particular to the AI
trade. The Nasdaq 100 leading the charge
out the gate 1.6% gain in futures
[music] and you can see the Russell 2000
right there behind it 1.3%. The extra
stimulus not coming from the Federal
Reserve but coming from oil markets. We
take a look at twos, tens and 30s it's
yields curve compression as it we get
some data on initial jobless claims. How
much are we banking on some sort of
ongoing strength in the US economy and
the labor market just crossing the
numbers now brought to you by Michael
McKee. Mike, what do you see?
>> Yeah.
Well, what I see is Kevin Warsh gets a
break. He doesn't have to worry about
the labor market. Didn't talk much about
it yesterday. It does seem to be stable.
226,000
initial jobless claims and that's a
decline from 230,000 which is revised up
from 229 last week. Either way you look
at it, it shows jobless claims
relatively stable. They've moved up over
the last couple of weeks but not
significantly. The
country is still maybe not hiring a few
more people they are but maybe not
hiring in big numbers but they're
certainly not firing at this point.
Continuing claims 1,810,000
do rise from 1,786,000.
So maybe some people are having a little
harder time getting a job but these are
weekly numbers so they do bounce around
a lot. But the bottom line is it's not a
major big deal.
The Philadelphia Fed numbers are out as
well and the Philly Fed index rises to
10.3 from -0.4.
The prices paid index is at 53.2
versus 47.9. So we still have inflation
that's no surprise given
that we saw prices rise significantly
during this war. We don't know how much
or how often they're going to go down
but it does show business a little bit
stronger in the Philadelphia area. So it
does look like at this point the economy
is in relatively good shape and the
labor market is in relatively good
shape. So, if you're going to be the Fed
and want to take something on, it can be
inflation.
>> Yeah, if you take a look at markets,
taking this all in stride. As expected,
Mike, as you were mentioning, uh there
hasn't been a huge shift in the
expectations or the labor market in
terms of reasserting itself as a primary
story in the bond market. You could see
two-year yields actually come in just a
touch on this data, but otherwise,
across the board, staying pretty much
where you were. The rally actually
escalating on the 30-year yield to 4.86%
down seven basis points as people take a
look potentially to some weakening
there. Mike, I wonder how much the
employment data has been de-emphasized
as a result of the statement that we
heard from the Federal Reserve, unless
it has to do with wages, which more
directly feeds into inflation.
>> Well, there's no wage pressure out
there, certainly, because average hourly
earnings and other wage measures have
been dropping and they're now below the
level of inflation. So, if you're going
to try to do something about wages,
it's uh probably going to be bring down
the inflation rate so that people can
get ahead a little bit. I think they
basically are saying as long as the
labor market doesn't show signs of
falling apart, we're going to completely
focus on the inflation side of the
mandate. It's been something that's been
growing for a while, concern that they
haven't hit the target in over 5 years,
the 2% target. And it's about time they
do that or they risk the idea of
inflation expectations getting out of
control, people thinking that inflation
is going to be always higher.
>> Michael McKee, thank you so much for
breaking that down. As we see, that's
kind of flatline in terms of any kind of
excitement coming from jobless claims.
Really indicative of the low higher low
fire environment that we're in. This is
all going to be analyzed by a number of
task forces. Claudia Sahm of New Century
Advisors writing, "I think it was a
mistake by Warsh not to participate in
the statement of economic projections.
Warsh is leaving huge blanks in his
communication. The dot plot's days may
be numbered, but it was critical for
credibility. Claudia joins us now for
more. Claudia, great to see you. Always
love getting your perspective. Let's
start there. Why was it a mistake not to
put a dot on that plot?
>> Right. Well, I think the statement ended
with a very forceful, "This committee
will deliver price stability." Which
leads to a natural question of
well, how are you going to do that?
Right? Like what what do you How are you
going to deliver? And the summary of
economic projections, it is not perfect,
is often misunderstood, but that is
actually the exercise of of the dot
plot. It's actually Each individual is
like the FOMC. They're What is the
appropriate path for federal funds rate?
What's the right monetary policy to get
us to the dual mandate. That price
stability, you know, 2% is where all
those forecasts end in 2028. That's
because of They're working their way
towards price stability, and they adjust
their federal funds rate to get there.
So, they're like putting together plans
individually. And Kevin Warsh didn't
participate in that exercise, and he
didn't flesh out in the press conference
his views of what a plan could be of how
to get to that price stability.
>> And this was partly by design, right? I
mean, he talked about how he wanted the
market to be one of the key metrics that
they do look at, and that the market he
wants to have clarity of focus on the
data without trying to interpret how the
Fed would look at the data and then
respond to the Fed's response to the
data. I mean, what do you make of that
argument?
>> I think it's a it's going to be a tough
sell. And honestly, I can, you know, set
aside he doesn't want to talk about
plans, he doesn't want to talk about the
future. Okay, that's a debate to have
about communication. But what was really
striking is he didn't want to talk about
the decision they made this week. I
mean, they say they want price
stability, they voted unanimously to
hold rates steady. How is that in
service of price stability?
>> Are Are you saying you think they should
have hiked this this meeting?
>> No. I think they should have explained
why they chose to hold rate steady. I I
agree with that decision, but it is it's
like totally pointless that I agree with
it. I want to hear what the Fed chair
thinks about it. What the committee
thinks about it. Why was that the right
decision? We know from the summary of
economic projections that many of them
think it's going to be appropriate to
raise rates later. Many of them don't
think it will be. Like tell me about why
you decided to do what you did today.
It's communication's also about
accountability. Like understanding who
these people are that are making these
big decisions. Don't they don't have a
crystal ball, but I really do expect
them to explain what they're doing right
now and show their work.
>> Is it potentially that Kevin Warsh views
as a slippery slope to then be an
individual that's up there on the podium
giving forward guidance, which he
doesn't agree with?
>> Again, I I don't you know it don't tell
me about the future, but I feel like
there's some hiding behind the
[clears throat] jargon. And and I will
say first press conference, right? Like
this you know
unevenness out of the gate totally
understandable, but I do think there's
room for adjustment. And if you just
want to talk about the decision that was
made today, fine. But but do talk about
that. And yes, I think it's important
you know the slippery slope, okay, fine.
But I the service of accountability is
important and we do need to I think have
some insights onto the discussions that
they're having and how they're weighing
the data and what they're thinking about
because honestly right now monetary
policy
is tough.
Right? So we should have some insights
into the debate that they're having
about those policies.
>> We did we're going to get more
information about how they plan to
communicate going forward. What's the
potential consequence of this approach
in markets? Is it more volatility? Is it
just more uncertainty expressed in other
ways? How do you filter this into being
potentially pernicious in a way that
maybe people don't understand?
>> Right? So markets are going to fill in
the blanks, right? They're going to try
to come up with some views that's going
to mean we're going to have more
uncertainty about what the Federal
Reserve is going to do, which is going
to lead to potentially more volatility
in interest rates, and investors are
going to want to be compensated for that
uncertainty, right? So, it does come at
a cost. Uh and so, you know, there's no
free lunch here in terms of how the how
the Fed interacts with markets. And, you
know, I just I I I'm
we had a Fed long ago that like to
surprise markets and didn't give a lot
of information. And know, the recent
regime may not be perfect, but we moved
away from that the Fed surprising
markets for a lot of good reasons, and I
think backtracking into that is
could cause a lot of of problems down
the road.
>> We did learn something pretty crucial,
and this added to the hawkish message
that the market took from the statement,
and frankly, the statement of economic
projections in particular, which is that
nine of the 18 members of the FOMC saw
the next move as a hike later this year.
That's new, and that's significant. How
do you interpret that, and do you think
that that's the appropriate stance?
>> Well, and what those individuals are
saying is not necessarily they expect
hikes, but they think that's
appropriate. That is going to be
necessary to get us back to price
stability. That's a really important
statement. Again, I think when you hear
speeches, we'll get this fleshed out
with individuals thinking, but they also
said in the statement that, you know, a
big part of what's happening with
inflation are supply shocks related to
energy. The textbook is for an energy
supply shocks, the Fed should look
through it. The Fed shouldn't be raising
rates into that. So, it's telling you
something to have a group of Fed
officials say, you know, what, we've had
enough of these supply shocks, it's
spread out over time. We need to be
raising rates to rein this in, even if
it goes against
you know, the textbook response to one
supply shock individually. That is a big
shift in monetary policy, and it was a
very divided committee. You had the
other half not going down that route.
So, there's a lot going on in the
committee in these debates and you know,
it would be nice to understand a little
bit more about what what the exact
debates are. The dots are hard to read
from the outside.
>> Speaking of the SEP though, and I know
you think it was a mistake for Warsh not
to participate, do you think it's a
signal that potentially the dot plot
could go away one day?
>> Oh, it could, but the you know, you need
I think the tool the communication
is important. There may be a better way
to do it. You know, I think it's it's
very helpful to get a sense of you know,
how how committee members react to data,
how they think about weighing inflation
or or unemployment. Maybe the dot plot
is not the best way to do this. I think
the committee in their framework review
were clear. There are some flaws with
it, but nobody had a better idea. I
think that's the thing is that you know,
you just deleting information, deleting
tools is not going to be very
satisfying. Improving them is going to
be awesome. So, if if Kevin Warsh can
lead to real improvements, I think
that'd be something to be excited about.
But that's going to take time. And the
this committee has really thought hard
about the issue. It's not simple
to answer these questions, but we'll see
where where the the task force and then
the committee how they weigh the the
ideas that the task force come up with.
>> Claudia, do you think that Jerome Powell
will stay on for longer due to some of
the scope of changes that are currently
underway?
>> So, I take Jerome Powell at his word
that he is you know, his decision to
stay on is very much tied with these
concerns about independence, concerns
about the building, the review of the
building renovation. And so, when he
feels like you know, those issues have
been resolved to his satisfaction, then
I would expect him to go. I I didn't see
anything in this is like a protest vote
of Kevin Warsh. I mean, it sounded like
everyone on the committee is really
trying to set
the new chair up for success.
>> Claudia Sahm of New Century Advisors,
thank you so much as always for being
with us and breaking it down. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Isabel Lee. Isabel.
>> [music]
>> Hi Lisa. Recapping the data we just got,
jobless claims coming in at 226,000 last
[music] week, down from the prior
number, but slightly above estimates of
225,000.
Continuing claims rising from the
previous week, coming in above estimates
at the 1.81 million.
And a private credit fund managed by
Oaktree telling shareholders that the
redemption requests dropped by nearly
half in the second quarter, falling
within the 5% limit,
>> [music]
>> allowing the fund to fully satisfy
demand. Oaktree is the first major firm
to stem a growing exodus from the $1.8
trillion industry.
And traders betting on a Fed rate hike
as soon as next month after Fed Chair
Kevin Warsh's first meeting. President
Trump reacting to the news.
>> It's all right. Whatever.
>> And it looks like they might even raise
them later this year. It's not clear. Do
you have any
>> It's not going to happen. I mean, I I
It's hard to believe.
It just keeps the country down, you
know. So, it's so
unusual.
But, we have a very good guy over there
now, so I'm guided by what he wants to
>> Warsh saying the central bank won't
tolerate high inflation. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, Lisa. [music]
>> Thank you so much and thank you for this
morning, Isabel. Up next, Jessica
Naviskas of Marquette Associates [music]
on the downside risks to the equity
rally. And Bonnie Quinn with your
morning mover, SpaceX shares [music]
extending declines following its first
negative trading session. Still,
however, up about 40% since the IPO.
From New York City, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> The thing that really surprised me is
how hawkish that
a war
came across. If the Fed were in a
position where they had to raise rates,
it'd be a quarter 50 basis points. The
bond market might actually rally on
that.
>> That was at your Danny of your Danny
research and guess what? That's exactly
what you're seeing this morning at least
at the long end of the yield curve. You
can see enthusiasm in equity markets as
oil prices fall and agreement reached
between the US and Iran even if it's
only for 60 days. You could see that
really giving a lift to the Russell 2000
futures up 1 and a quarter percent the
Nasdaq up 1.6% [music]
in the bond space that yield curve
flattening really engaging and you could
see two-year yields at least before we
got the jobless claims inflecting
upward. Now down along with the rest of
the curve but seven basis point decline
at the 30-year end 3.86%
and take a look at that two's tens
curve. You can see it at the narrowest
level going back to March of [music]
as people expect near-term hawkishness
to lead to stability in the long end of
rates. That is what a lot of people are
banking on going forward. Less than an
hour from the cash open here are your
morning movers with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie.
>> [music]
>> Lisa, we're going to start with an
upgrade from Barclays for Oh, wait.
We're actually going to start with
SpaceX. So SpaceX, we're keeping an eye
on this. Obviously, we lost ground
yesterday down 5%. That really just gave
back what we had taken the previous day
which was an up 5% day.
>> [music]
>> Obviously, we're still at 185.69. We're
a good 40% or so above the IPO price but
we'll be watching [music] the volatility
of the trade today. Yesterday, at one
point we were down as much as 7% and up
as much as 4%. All right, let's move to
elsewhere in the technology sector. So
you have now the semiconductors and in
in specifically the memory chip maker is
higher today. Marvell Technology is the
most
profitable among them at the moment.
This is because Tim Cook gave the Wall
Street Journal an
>> [music]
>> interview in which he said that he was
going to raise prices. Finally, Apple
products are going to be higher because
it's just unsustainable to raise memory
[music] to to continue to pay the prices
that memory chip makers are asking and
finally consumers going to pass it on.
Now, that's good for margins for memory
chip makers.
>> [music]
>> And then finally, here is the upgrade.
Enphase energy up almost 6%. Barclays
upgrading but it's come on the back of a
few upgrades this week [music] and
that's because Enphase is also moving
into the AI space. It's [music] not
doing so well in the residential sector
anymore. China has eaten our lunch when
it comes to
energy technology residentially. So now
it is moving into the data center and it
has started shipping products already.
[music]
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. I'd have a
wonderful weekend counting down to the
opening bell. Here's a trading diary for
the week ahead. 11:00 a.m. Vice
President J.D. Vance speaking from the
White House.
>> [music]
>> Want to get to that in just a second.
Friday, US markets closed for the
Juneteenth holiday, which is why today
feels like a Friday at least here in the
United States. Tuesday, we get PMI data.
Really interesting to see that kind of
momentum in the economy. And Thursday,
PCE data. How much does that have an
added push given the focus on inflation
[music] at the Federal Reserve? 11:00
a.m. What's going to be that What's that
>> So this was just added to the White
House briefing schedule schedule. You
know, he's set to go to Switzerland to
meet with the Iranian counterparts.
Obviously, the president [music] signed
the MOU yesterday but I imagine he's
going to walk through with the press
exactly what's in this MOU given the
fact that the Iranians have already
released it. Maybe we'll get an update
on those [music] sanction waivers we're
supposed to get in this administration
according to the MOU and how many
vessels they see or what is going to be
the procedure. Remember the Chevron CEO
saying, "You really have to map out who
gets to go first and how this all is
going to operate to give confidence to
these ship vessels and ship owners and
the insurance companies to allow those
[music] ships to traverse the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> Yeah, the details matter and ultimately
we might get some details at 11:00 a.m.
this morning. Counting down to the
market open, stocks rebounding. Jessica
Noviskis of Market Marquette Associates
writing, "Earning strength is clearly
part of what's driving markets. The
market assumes the strength continues
unabated. That sets a really high bar
and creates more risk to the downside."
Jessica joins us now for more. Jessica,
thank you for being with us. Are you
bearish because we haven't met a bear in
a long time. I just want to get flesh
that out from the top.
>> I would not consider myself a bear, but
I will say when no one else is concerned
about the risks, that makes me feel a
little bit more concerned about the
risks. I think one of the things that's
really telling, so we obviously had a
good earning season, earning strength is
obvious, but the 2027
estimates have increased more than the
2026 estimates year-to-date. So, this
was not right one quarter, a couple of
quarters of strength. The market really
is assuming that this continues
for at least the next two years, maybe
perpetually with the AI secular themes.
And that, right, that doesn't leave a
lot of room for hiccups or stocks
getting over their skis. And it's it's
that sort of thing that can maybe lead
to that market crack and then
who knows what happens in a world where
leverage and options are more prevalent
than they've ever been.
>> We were talking to George Goncalves
yesterday and he was talking about the
year of the bond market or the summer of
the bond market and how he thinks
actually this is a good time to start
going into duration. Would you agree
with that? This was even before the Fed
meeting. Would you agree with that as an
alternative in the case that earnings
don't keep up?
>> I think that can be part of the strategy
and especially
what the Fed outlined yesterday. I think
we could certainly see more volatility
in shorter end rates and less volatility
in longer end rates. So, I think that's
probably a good strategy. Though I I'm
an equity girl and I think equity
earnings will always drive the market.
It doesn't mean that, you know, there
won't be risks or hiccups or volatility,
but I I think the earnings trends are
real. I just worry that we're not
leaving any room for any mistakes.
>> When it comes to the rotation trade, I
guess what's going to help it is the
fact that we do have this 60-day
essential of a ceasefire. Hopefully
vessels will be moving through the
Strait of Hormuz, but then at the same
time the Federal Reserve is talking
about or leaning towards at least at the
moment a hike. So, how how do you deal
with the two?
>> Yes, and I I know a lot of folks have
talked about the war is, right,
essentially over at least the market's
looking past it. So, let's go back to
the playbook that was working at the
beginning of the year. But I think this
situation is very, very different from
that at the beginning of the year. It
was a very strong expectations for
cyclical strength. That included rate
cuts. That included tax refunds, which
now have been eaten up by higher
gasoline prices. That included, I think,
an expectation of fiscal stimulus going
into the midterms. The focus, right, we
had a lot of headlines coming out that
were very focused on affordability and
the consumer experience, which is sort
of the playbook going into a midterm
election. And now time has sort of run
out of that. The months that have been
consumed by the war have left little
time for new stimulus measures. Now, we
could still see headlines,
but in terms of real impact, real things
that could help the consumer from here,
I I I'm I'm more skeptical there.
>> Do Are you expecting this thing to
happen before the midterm election? That
could be potentially a stimulate not
just the consumer, but to the market?
>> I think the Republicans are incentivized
to try. Right, we know the war has been
pretty unfavorable with folks. We don't
like higher gasoline prices. They're
coming down now, but I right, the the 60
days and the the straight partially
opening isn't really enough to solve
this whole problem. So I think it
depends on how the next few months play
out. Uh but right there's strong
historical precedent for the president's
party to lose seats in the midterms and
they don't have a lot of cushion for
that. So I would expect them to to do
everything they can.
>> Jessica Canaviskis of Market Associates,
thank you so much for being with us.
Have a wonderful weekend. And right now
ahead of the open, we are looking at a
bullish sentiment really helped by Intel
shares. I mean, it's important to note
this is a a market of stocks, not just a
stock market. And some of these stocks
have been outperforming in different
pockets, driving the tech trade. Intel
shares up 8.4%
as uh Trump gets involved and there is a
deal right now with Apple. Again,
emphasizing this focus on domestic
resilience.
>> Trump gets involved again in Intel. And
in this latest post, he's talking about
this work that Apple and Intel can do
together when it comes to chips. It also
comes at a time when the Wall Street
Journal has this report of a interview
with Apple and they're talking about how
they're going to have to raise prices
because of just the extraordinary
insatiable demand we are seeing when it
comes to semiconductors.
>> The inflation from the AI trade making
its way into the other story of the
moment, which is the economy and
inflation. How much can those two come
together? We are seeing the beginnings
of that in some of these share prices to
watch. Heading into the open, we are
seeing that resilience in equity markets
continue. It is led not only by Intel,
but in general by chip sector stocks as
well as we see in the memory sector
space. This really has been the one high
beta trade, although this time coming
along with the Russell 2000 given the
fact that oil prices really, once again,
setting the tone.
>> They're off to the races lower. Um this
is great news for the White House and
the consumer. Devil though in the
details. A lot of vessels are trapped.
Do the insurance company, do the ship
owners, do they have the confidence now
to go through the Strait of Hormuz? The
next 60 days is going to be critical.
>> Well, the next 3 hours are also going to
be critical for all you Knicks fans out
there. Enjoy the parade. Have a great
time. It has been quite the crowd
gathering. Coming up next Monday, Lori
Calvasina of RBC, Nouriel Roubini of
Hudson Bay Capital, Seema Shah of
Principal Asset Management, and Amy
Gower of Morgan Stanley.
>> [music]
>> Yes, we can get that mug in the shot.
>> iconic. It's an iconic day [music] for
New York.
>> Oof. Oof. Have a great weekend. Take
care.